5722018454	We present a detailed thermal study of Binospec, a wide-field, multi-slit spectrograph being developed for use at the converted MMT. Modern astronomical instruments that use high performance refractive optics can be quite sensitive to temperature changes and thermal gradients. This sensitivity arises from thermal expansion of the lenses and lens mounts, as well as changes in refractive indices with temperature. Thermally induced tilts and decenters of optical elements are also of concern. Binospec's optics are designed to maintain image quality, image scale, and focus over a wide temperature range, but they must remain approximately isothermal to attain this performance.We use finite element modeling techniques to assess the impact of the continually changing thermal environment upon the Cassegrain-mounted Binospec spectrograph. The thermal models consider the effects of conduction, convection, and radiation. We have checked our results using simple test cases that can be verified analytically, and have made detailed models of several components to test the required level of model fidelity. We describe significant model conclusions and the design recommendations that result from them.As the RXTE mission matures, the archive of high quality data on individual objects and classes of objects is becoming increasingly fruitful to researchers. Standard data products allow the user to get a quick overview of an archival observation. Light curves, spectra and other high-level products created from generic analysis of standard-mode data reveal the amount of good time, PCA and HEXTE count rates, (source, background, and net), spectral hardness, and any sudden changes in brightness (flares or eclipses). The archive contains the product files themselves (in FITS format) as well as .gif images for a number of key plots to facilitate browsing of the data products. The standard data products are not meant to take the place of careful data analysis by the user; rather, they offer a glimpse of the quality and details of archival observations.Fellows and accepted HST Cycle 11 GO/AR/SNAP researchers to submit proposals for an E/PO extension to their "parent" research proposal. The spirit of the HST Cycle 11 E/PO Grant Program is to encourage collaborative efforts between professional astronomers/space scientists and professional educators that would broaden the knowledge and understanding of the latest discoveries of the Hubble Space Telescope. The proposed E/PO program should have some degree of intellectual linkage to the objectives of the "parent" research proposal and/or the science expertise of its Principal Investigator (PI). The goal is to provide K-12 and community college education institutions, pre-service and in-service educators, and museums, science centers and planetariums with current astronomy/space science content.We present a method for determining the B-field around neutron stars based on observed kHz and viscous QPO frequencies used in combination with the best-fit optical depth and temperature of a Comptonization model. In the framework of the transition layer QPO model, we analyze magnetoacoustic wave (MAW) formation in the layer between a neutron star surface and the inner edge of a Keplerian disk.This photometry was continued through the end of 2000 when the star became too faint to observe. A visual light curve was constructed from all the available photometry. From the rapid decline in brightness, the system is classified as a "fast" nova. From March-August 2000 oscillations were detected in the light curve up to 0.5 mag in amplitude with a characteristic timescale of several days. The nature of these oscillations is being investigated and will be discussed in the poster. Several long observing runs were undertaken at this time to search for underlying binary eclipse signatures, and although small variations were detected, they were not periodic.We have developed a Monte Carlo simulation code to accurately model pulsar surface and magnetospheric emissions. In these simulations, we include several rapid rotation effects which we have shown to be important in the accurate modeling of millisecond pulsar light curves and spectra. We also incorporate more subtle (e.g. relativistic Kerr effects, magnetospheric resonant scattering) effects which could be measurable in high signal-to-noise observations. We include non-magnetic model atmosphere calculations (Fe, H, solar abundance) that are angle-dependent and include the effects of limb-darkening.Kitt Peak 12-m and Heinrich Hertz Submillimeter Telescope telescopes. We will test models of Galactic chemical evolution that predict that the abundances of C, N, O will be lower than in any other Galactic cloud and similar to dwarf irregular galaxies. We will test the possibility that we are observing gas from an early burst of massive star formation such as population III halo stars which would have produced some S and O but not a significant amount of the secondary element N that is also produced from low mass stars.We thank the Research Corporation for providing funding for general community access to Kitt Peak 12-meter telescope, presently operated by Steward Observatory and to the AAS for a small research grant.SNe Ia as a function of redshift --- does not cause the wrong distance--redshift relation to be inferred from the data. Fortunately, a complete understanding of the origin and physics of SNe Ia, however desirable, will not be required for taking SN Ia evolution into account. SN Ia evolution differs in an important respect from the kind of cosmic evolution that presents such a challenge to some other approaches to observational cosmology. Number counts, for example, evolve with cosmic time in a way that cannot be determined by making observations of the local universe. The properties of a SN Ia, on the other hand, depend on the properties of its progenitor star, not directly on the age of the universe. It follows that SN Ia evolution is expected to be limited to a modest amount of progenitor population drift. Because the local universe produces SNe Ia from stellar populations that have a range of properties such as age and metallicity, the population drift can be controlled empirically. Strategies for doing this will be briefly discussed.The galactic region G9.62+0.19 comprises several massive young stellar objects of different evolutionary stages. One of the most interesting objects (component F) is confirmed to be a molecular hot core. A feature which made this object unique among hot cores is the fact that it seemed to be associated with NIR emission. This contradicts with the high near-infrared optical depths usually observed towards hot cores and can only be understood if the distribution of the circumstellar matter deviates from spherical symmetry.Our careful astrometry of the latter suggests that the beforementioned NIR emission is not a direct trace of the hot core. However, an indirect association between the molecular gas and the IR emission might not be ruled out completely. In combination with high-sensitive VLA radio maps and basic radiative transfer considerations we discuss the nature of individual objects as well as the global features of the region.Astronomy is riddled with a number of anachronistic and counterintuitive practices. Among these are: plotting increasing stellar temperature from right to left in the H-R diagram; giving the distances to remote astronomical objects in parsecs; and reporting the brightness of astronomical objects in magnitudes. Historical accident and observational technique, respectively, are the bases for the first two practices, and they will undoubtedly persist in the future.Should the historical origins of magnitudes alone be reason enough for their continued use? Probably not, since astronomical magnitudes are based on outdated studies of human perception; make little sense in an era of linear optical detection; and provide a barrier to student and public understanding of astronomy. Perhaps it is time to add astronomical magnitudes to the dustbin of scientific history, along with caloric, phlogiston and the ether.Observatory has paved the way for the study of the X-ray binary population of nearby galaxies, which in early-type systems are primarily low-mass X-ray binaries (LMXBs). Here, I present some initial results on the spectral characteristics and luminosity distribution function of the LMXBs in a sample of early-type galaxies. The spectrum of the LMXBs is substantially harder than that of the hot gas that also resides in these galaxies, but comparable to LMXBs in our own Galaxy. For the galaxies studied so far, there is either a break or cut-off in the luminosity function at a luminosity of ~2e38 ergs/s, which is approximately the Eddington luminosity of a 1.4 solar mass accreting neutron star. If this break is a universal feature of galaxies, it might be used as a distance estimator. At lower X-ray luminosities, the LMXB population is remarkably similar from galaxy to galaxy, suggesting that the high end of the initial mass function was very similar in early-type systems in the past. I discuss a method of using this similarity to further constrain the distances to these galaxies. Finally, I discuss the implications of the tendency of LMXBs to be preferentially located within globular clusters.Recently, X-ray spatially resolved spectroscopy has been successfully used for direct measurements of gas bulk velocities in the ICM. This is a relatively ``new" technique that can provide fundamental clues as to the evolutionary stage of galaxy clusters. We present some preliminary results on gas bulk velocity measurements on several clusters and discuss some issues related to the detection of large (>1000 km/s) intracluster gas bulk motions with current X-ray satellites as well as using alternatives to X-ray analyses, e.g., with differential S-Z effect.In the cooling flow picture, hot X-ray emitting 