5722018479	As noted above, health care related experiences are extremely helpful in demonstrating your degree of commitment to medicine - summer jobs, research experience, externships and volunteer hospital work are all helpful. Once medical schools get interested in you on the basis of your credentials they will try to find out your attitude toward questions such as: Do you know what you are getting into? Are you prepared to cope with the demands, stresses and frustrations and to take full advantage of the opportunities? How do you feel about the prospect of working with sick people most of the time? Are you planning realistically to finance your medical education?Where you live is a major factor in the medical school application and selection process. You should always apply to schools within your own state or to schools that give special consideration to residents of your state. In 2005, 63% of new matriculants went to medical schools in their own states.Residency is not something about which you can equivocate. It is a term that is interpreted differently by different states, and even by different medical schools within a single state, but it is taken very seriously. A corollary to this is that as you file your application you must be completely open and honest with the medical schools. You can only claim residency in one state. The medical schools have sophisticated ways of discovering false information and dishonest applicants are likely to be eliminated from consideration by all medical schools. If you have any question about whether you qualify as a state resident, call the admissions office of the medical school and ask for a copy of their guidelines on how residency is determined.The mean age of matriculants nationally in 2005 was about 24. Most of the people who apply through the Health Sciences Office are alumni/ae who have graduated within the last two years. In fact, it is a wise strategy to wait until your credentials are at their strongest; medical schools are very interested in candidates who have the experience and maturity that comes from being out in the work world or graduate school for a few years. This can sometimes compensate for somewhat lower grades and MCATs, particularly for candidates who have worked in a health care setting. Nationally, the oldest matriculant in 2005 was 53 years old.The application-acceptance ratio is similar for both sexes. For the August 2005 entering class, women constituted 49.8% of the total applicant pool and 48.7% of accepted applicants. The percentage of women medical students varies greatly from school to school; for example, 28% of the matriculating class at the Uniformed Services University and 71% at the University of Connecticut.It is extremely difficult, although not impossible, for international students (not U.S. citizens or permanent residents) to enter American medical schools. Most medical schools will not even consider their applications. International students who have extremely high grade point averages may be accepted, but they will be ineligible to receive the standard financial aid package. In 2005, only 264 first year places across the entire U.S. went to international students.Medical schools are looking for students of high character and integrity as well as academic ability. The Health Sciences Advisory Committee is responsible for recommending students to medical school. Each year the Dean's Office reviews the list of candidates for medical school and reports to the Health Sciences Advisory Committee any cases of disciplinary action taken against the student by the College.If a student has been disciplined by the College, the above statement is not included at the end of the student's Committee letter and the Health Sciences Advisory Committee meets to discuss how the case should be handled.On your AMCAS application, you will be required to state whether you were ever convicted of a felony or the recipient of any institutional action for unacceptable academic performance or a conduct violation, even if it does not appear on your transcript. If this is an issue for you, be sure to discuss your situation with Gigi.Between January and September 2007, there will be 22 test administrations for the MCAT on 19 different dates. If you have not yet taken the MCAT, you should try to do it by mid-summer if you plan to apply this summer. Most medical schools have rolling admissions, filling their seats with applicants whose application files are completed first. To postpone taking the test until the fall creates problems, because it delays consideration of your whole application until the MCAT scores are received about a month later. In addition, taking a fall MCAT means you must apply to medical schools before you know your MCAT score. A top score combined with excellent grades means that you should apply to the best schools; a lower score means that you should apply to less competitive schools.Registration for the MCAT is online at http://www.aamc.org/students/mcat/. The MCAT is offered only at Prometric Test Centers. If you register at least 60 days in advance, it is the goal of the MCAT administration to assign you to a test site within 100 miles of your requested site. Clearly, you should register as soon as registration becomes available for your desired date to get the most convenient location possible.It describes the exam in detail, outlines skills and science content basic to the test, describes preparation and test-taking strategies, and includes sample questions with explanations of the answers.Full-length MCAT practice tests with detailed explanations of the correct answers are also available, both in paper form and in online versions. These are described on the AAMC website at http://www.aamc.org/students/mcat/practicetests.htm.If you prefer a structured course-type review or if you do not feel comfortable with standardized test formats and would find simulated test experience and pointers on test taking useful, you may want to consider a commercial review course. The disadvantage of these courses is their cost. They are also very time consuming, with between 70-85 hours of sessions during the spring semester (plus homework), depending on how many practice tests you take.For a number of years, the Stanley Kaplan course for the MCAT has been offered on campus during the spring semester at a discount for Swarthmore students. If there are enough students who sign up, Kaplan will offer the course again this year for $1349, plus shipping costs for books. Modest tuition assistance is also available to students on financial aid. Brochures are available in the Health Sciences Office. The course will combine classroom presentations with computerized full-length practice tests. More information can be obtained from the Health Sciences Office or by calling the Kaplan Center in Bryn Mawr at 610-526-9744, which is also the number to call to register for the course. Be sure to tell them that you are a Swarthmore student who wants to take the course on the Swarthmore campus, and get the Swarthmore discount. If you register early, you may receive the materials early enough to begin reviewing over winter break.The Health Sciences Advisory Committee's letter of recommendation, which includes photocopies of your faculty and non-faculty letters of recommendation, is a significant factor in your application to medical school.Sciences Advisory Committee. However,  we do not recommend that you apply independently. Since most medical schools are aware that Swarthmore has such a Committee, they will wonder why they are receiving an independent application without a Committee letter of recommendation. Everyone cannot be recommended equally strongly, so some deficiency in the record is assumed to be the reason for applying outside the usual structure.Since the Committee letters of recommendation must be similar in editorial content, they are all written by Gigi. All the letters are reviewed by another member of the Health Sciences Advisory Committee to assure that we are being fair to you. What is written is based on your achievements here, your activities as you describe them to Gigi, and what the faculty and non-faculty letters of recommendation have said about you.The form of the letter is as follows: First, there is a brief statement identifying you, your class and major, any awards (Honors, Sigma Xi, Watson, etc.) you have received, and your most noteworthy non-academic experiences. Your rank in class (top 10%, top 25%, etc.) as reported by the Registrar may also be included. We then discuss your academic performance as reported by faculty members, and personal qualities, again as reported by faculty or employers. We follow this with comments about your motivation and suitability for medicine using evidence from the medically-related activities in which you have been involved and anything else we have learned from you about your experiences and accomplishments. Finally, we offer a summary recommendation. In all cases we try to make your letter as positive as honestly possible, given your academic record and activities. At the end of the letter, we add two statements if they are true. The first states that the applicant has waived his/her access to the contents of this letter and the attached faculty and non-faculty recommendations, if you make the decision to do so. The second states that a check of the files in the Dean’s Office has shown no disciplinary actions (see above).We then attach photocopies of your faculty and employer recommendations. The Committee letter packet typically runs about eight to ten pages in length and provides a comprehensive view of you as a person and student.Assuming that you have met all the deadlines listed in this guide, your Committee letter packet is scanned and uploaded to VirtualEvals, a secure, web-based system for transmitting letters of recommendation to medical schools, in late July or early August. The medical