5722018460	Vontu stands out with its “Goldilocks” solution: It has just the right mix of features and usability. Although it’s one of the pricier solutions out-of-the-gate, if you believe that the key to handling insider threats is not just reporting but also blocking, then it’s hard to miss with this product. When it comes to protecting confidential information from exposure, I envision a blended approach, with agents at the desktop serving as the first line of defense and inline network monitoring serving as the last line of defense, as you’ll find in Tablus’ overall solution. Other vendors will likely follow.Prior to the availability of Direct Push, a device had to remain on and ready to receive a packet from the server, with the server essentially asking whether the user was available to receive an e-mail. The necessity of always waiting for a ping reduces battery life.As far as real time goes, however, some industry analysts such as Ken Dulaney, senior mobile analyst at Gartner, claims if a corporate user can get an e-mail within 15 minutes of it being sent, the difference between real push and simulated push is negligible.Direct Push adds other benefits as well. Push as a technology gives the server a remote, control channel. With push, IT can implement a theft loss-protection strategy to delete data or add password policy enforcement over the air.Joe Fabris, director of wireless solutions for Palm, said if you are managing fifty or fewer Treos, however, there probably is no need for additional management software. But if you are managing 500 or 5,000 devices, you will need additional software to manage the blacklisting of nonapproved software, software maintenance and upgrades, and the ability to turn off components such as a built-in camera.While working in Lotus Notes e-mail for a period of time, typically an hour or two, the program will display the following error message when users try to open or delete email: "You are not authorized to perform that operation." Users can close the dialog box but then can't do anything else in Notes.Mike Rhodin, general manager at IBM Lotus, described the moves as "the largest expansion ever" of the vendor's collaboration software. "We raided IBM Research and brought a lot of that into our products," he said during a Monday conference call.IBM is aiming the collaboration tools at business users, drawing a distinction between social networking tools like wikis and blogging for individual users and the same kind of technologies transferred to a corporate setting. For businesses, security and integration are key factors influencing whether they'll use such software.Appearing on the NBC Studios soundstage of the comedy show Saturday Night Live, Ballmer joked about the vagueness of the term "unified communications." He told the audience of media, company employees, customers, and analysts that "it means everything and it means nothing, and it doesn't have a specific meaning to any one customer."The best way to explain the term is to demonstrate how a single communications interface can be provided by tying communications applications that run on back-end Microsoft software -- such as e-mail, instant messaging and video-conferencing -- with Nortel telephony infrastructure, Ballmer said.To that end, Nortel and Microsoft demonstrated how the ICA's current offering -- the Converged Office -- lets users make VoiP calls, send instant messages, or check other users' online presence without having to toggle between applications. The integration of Microsoft Office and Microsoft Exchange Server makes this possible. The Converged Office is available for small- to medium-size businesses, but will be available to enterprises by year's end, executives said.Ballmer and Zafirovski said the offerings introduced this year and through 2009 will be part of the first phase of the ICA, the primary focus of which is to allow for an integrated desktop experience for communications across the enterprise. However, in 2010 and beyond, the companies plan to integrate all of the back-end business processes, management, and administration of various forms of Web-based and telephony communication in the enterprise, Ballmer said."Instead of there being a separate hardware and software stack, we pull all of that together," he said. "So if people want to write business applications that have communications integrated inside, we provide the same toolset -- Visual Studio working with Exchange, Active Directory, the voice system. All of that gets integrated in the second phase."During the executives' presentation, Johan Krebbers, group IT architect from oil and gas company Royal Dutch Shell, appeared onstage to explain how that company plans to use forthcoming ICA offerings to redesign the communications infrastructure of Shell's multinational business.The SaaS (software-as-a-service) model continues to gain adherents and strength as Salesforce.com announces this week that it will team up with Siemens, a global technology giant to offer a mashup between Salesforce's CRM service and Siemens HiPath OpenScape communications application."If a customer has a tax question and you are the client manager, you can go on the system and see if your tax specialist is on the phone. If he's available, you can conference the specialist in," said Tien Tzuo, chief strategy officer at Salesforce.In its initial offering, the mashup is being targeted at the financial services community. Currently Salesforce has 1,200 financial services customers, including large customers such as Sun Trust Bank and Aon with 60,000 financial services professionals using Salesforce, according to Tzuo.Similarly, Exchange Server 2007 promises to take in-house e-mail to the next level. Buy the right cell phone package and you’ve almost got a BlackBerry killer built-in; and in a world where nine out of 10 e-mails are spam, Microsoft-managed Forefront Security Services Exchange Hosted Filtering (formerly FrontBridge) will make many e-mail managers’ lives easier. Now add deep integration with typical telecommunications chores, including voicemail and faxing, within a unified inbox environment, as well as support for SIP-based VoIP, and Exchange really is the communications hub.Finally, there's Vista. You can say it was playing catch up to OS X in good looks, but Microsoft also added loads of new tools that will keep other operating systems chasing its tail: revamped A-to-Z networking, top-down security rebuild, integrated handheld syncing, and a high-end display capability that’s ready for advanced graphics processing tasks, and not just pretty wallpaper. Oh yeah, and a Mahjong game that’s more than a little addictive.Microsoft has fought hard, and perhaps suffered an unhealthy caffeine-to-employee ratio, in order to maintain a leadership position across these market segments. The company still has effective competition in these areas, but the fact that one organization not only stays in the lead but often points the way is remarkable. In the coming year we'll see how the new Office, Exchange, and Vista are received in the enterprise. Today, it looks to us like Redmond is on a roll.Branching allows a collection of files to evolve into divergent paths and is frequently used when teams must maintain two or more similar code bases. This can occur when a product is released and work has to start on a next version, according to Microsoft.With Version 1.2, an issue remains in that the first time a project is opened after branching, users need to use the "Open from Source Control" capability rather than opening it from their local hard drive, Harry writes.An improved Choose Folder in Team Foundation Server dialog is featured in Version 1.2. Moreover, a bug has been fixed that had prevented the Properties dialog from displaying local path. "Get" operation performance has been improved as well. Miscellaneous bug fixes are part of the 1.2 release.Seven has infringed on three of Visto's patents. But the USPTO has made an initial ruling that one of the patents in question is invalid. In a statement released Wednesday, Seven said it expects that the USPTO will issue its final rulings, either rejecting Visto's patents or narrowing their scope, during the time that Seven is appealing the recent ruling.The Texas court this week also ordered Seven to pay Visto US$7.7 million in damages plus attorney fees for infringing on the patents, Visto said in a statement on Thursday. The figure is double the damages set by a jury in April.Seven made no mention of the damages ruling in its statement. Instead, Seven highlighted the judge's dismissal of one of five patent claims that Visto asserted against Seven. The court also put on hold an injunction that would have prevented Seven from continuing to sell its mobile push e-mail products, pending appeal, both companies said.India has been adding about 6 million mobile subscribers each month. But because of a decline in phone-call tariffs, the average revenue per user (ARPU) has been falling for service providers. Service providers are looking at services other than telephony, such as e-mail and music downloads, to boost revenue.E-mail on mobile phones is one of a number of value-added services Idea Cellular plans to offer, in an effort to give customers more options and raise ARPU, said Pradeep Shrivastava, chief marketing officer of Idea Cellular on Tuesday.Hutchison Essar, a mobile service provider in India, announced this month the availability of BlackBerry handsets from Research in Motion (RIM) in Waterloo, Ontario, and related push e-mail services. Another large Indian mobile services provider, Bharti Airtel of Delhi, has been offering BlackBerry handsets and push e-mail services for the last couple of years.Idea Cellular decided to go in for a software approach to push e-mail, as it has adopted a strategy that does not depend on the type of handset a user has, Shrivastava said. Any user with a GPRS ha