5722018503	Assistant professor of physics Michael Pravica authored this essay, based upon a University of Nevada-Las Vegas University Forum talk and most recently presented to the Las Vegas City Council to support their passage of a resolution on global warming.Our atmosphere is comparable to a rubber glove stretched over a bowling ball -- it is very thin. Due to our atmosphere, we don't suffer the extremes of temperature of Mercury and our moon. In the opposite extreme, since our atmosphere isn't as thick or dense as Venus, we don't suffer from oppressive heat (850 Kelvin) due to greenhouse warming that prevents water from condensing there. Earth developed a very fortunate (for life) state of quasi-equilibrium. This allowed water to condense, removed most of the carbon dioxide from the air. And with liquid water as solvent, life evolved. However, human activity is probably altering this equilibrium by producing greenhouse gases (most notably carbon dioxide). These gases trap heat, warming Earth's surface and further release carbon dioxide (trapped in melting glaciers or warming oceans), further warming Earth's surface and creating a new equilibrium state in which all life may not survive. Unlike water, which readily condenses into liquid and solid (ice/snow), carbon dioxide remains in the atmosphere roughly 100 years before its natural removal. Thus, any effort initiated today to reverse the warming trend will not bear fruit until decades later. Though carbon dioxide levels have cyclically varied from about 180 parts per million to 280 ppm over the last 650,000 years, we have never measured higher carbon dioxide concentrations during this period than now (370 ppm) -- roughly 27 percent higher than at any point in the Earth's "recent" history. Though many argue that greenhouse gas release via human activity pales by comparison with volcanoes and other geothermal releases, these events are very short term and have created problems for life in the past but were "rapidly" corrected.Carbon dioxide produced by all life (not including humans) may be larger than that created by human activity. But without humans, it has been in equilibrium/balance for much time via the carbon cycle. Humans continue to add enormous additional quantities of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases and are also removing the ability of life to remove/sequester carbon dioxide (by e.g. decimating rain forests). This alters the Earth's natural homeostatic balance and it's possible we are only beginning to see the negative results. To provide some perspective of the sheer quantity of CO2 introduced, consider that a gallon of gasoline releases about 20 pounds of CO2 (among other greenhouse gases) and given that our nation consumes more than 20 million barrels of oil every day, this implies about 9 billion tons of carbon dioxide are released into the atmosphere every day. Whenever rapid change occurs, all life suffers as it struggles to adapt. The Earth's natural equilibrium can only take so many shocks before it irreversibly goes to a new state that may not support life, as in the rest of our solar system. We are conducting an experiment on our only home, Mother Earth, the results of which may not be known for some time and which may be catastrophic and irreversible.Tragically, most of the voices from whom the public have heard discuss global warming (such as author James Creighton or politician Al Gore) are not scientists and have spun (or misunderstood) the science behind this phenomenon to suit their own political or dogmatic needs. Scientists such as James Hanson who have been studying global warming for decades have been censored/muzzled by political bosses who have no little or no scientific training. Other scientists such as Peter Doran have had their data misinterpreted and misrepresented for political aims. Unfortunately for humans, there is no politics in nature but absolute natural laws. We cannot go on pretending these laws of nature don't exist and can be violated without disastrous consequences. Whether it is warming, pollution, dwindling natural resources, pestilence and disease or overpopulation, the human race is on a collision course with reality and only science can avoid likely catastrophes ahead.  In that spirit, I encourage all members of the public and their leaders to first of all learn the science behind the phenomenon of global warming and engage scientists in the debate so we can all decide together on the future course of action to tackle and prepare for global warming for the survival of the human race.At the end of the past academic year, UNLV Libraries vastly increased users' access to articles from scientific journals with the purchase of several large electronic archives from publishers Springer, Wiley, Elsevier, and the Royal Society of Chemistry.  UNLV library users now have electronic access to the entire runs of many important journals like Polymer and  Cell.  The recent purchase from Springer includes a large collection of e-books (books in digital format), many of them scientific or mathematical in nature.  These journals and books can be accessed by title through the UNLV Libraries Catalog.The College of Sciences is saddened to announce the passing of one of our colleagues, research assistant professor John Abiodun Elegbede, on August 21, 2006.  He passed away after a courageous battle in recent months with Multiple Myeloma. Elegbede was born in Nigeria, where he was the head of the biochemistry department at Amadu Bello University, Zaria. In the United States, he was an oncology researcher at the University of Wisconsin-Madison.  Elegbede received his B.S. (1975) and M.S. (1978) degrees in Biochemistry from Ahmadu Belllo University in Zaria, Nigeria. He received his Ph.D. in Nutritional Sciences from the University of Wisconsin, Madison in 1984. Elegbede's general research interests were in the areas of nutrition and cancer. He explored the protective effects of foods of plant origin against certain human diseases. Works by Elegbede and others showed that the monoterpene d-limonene has protective effects against breast cancer and led to the development of this class of compounds for clinical trials in humans. At the time of his death, Elegbede's current research focused on the identification of other non-nutritive agents with anti-carcinogenic potential and the understanding of  mechanism(s) of action of anti-carcinogens, particularly the role of chemotherapeutic agents in the regulation of apoptosis. He was also a deacon of Green Valley Baptist Church in Las Vegas and is survived by his wife, Moyo Elegbede; son, Damilola Elegbede; and daughter, Anu Elegbede.. Contributions may be made to The Elegbede Family, Calvary Bible Church, 3245 Kalmia Ave, Boulder, CO 80301.Incoming Washoe County ninth-graders are going to be guinea pigs in the Gateway Curriculum, an extra year of math and science beyond what is currently required for graduation. Officials say the curriculum will better prepare graduates for college or the workforce. Opponents of the curriculum say the extra math and science courses might frustrate students who aren't academically inclined and take time from vocational courses A Nevada university system report from 2002 showed 28 percent of Nevada high school graduates at the University of Nevada, Reno took remedial classes in at least one subject, compared with 43 percent at University of Nevada, Las Vegas.The Spring meeting of the College of Sciences Faculty included presentations from Dean Ron Yasbin and others. Among the topics covered were: introductions of new faculty members, development activities, current university search committees, college awards and by-laws, scholarship awards policies, two new courses (SCI 101 and SCI 499), class attendance, workload reassignments and committee reports.Abstract: The presentation focused on different models of gamma-ray and neutrino, of energy GeV and above, emission from GRBs. Detection/non-detection of these astronomical messengers in current and upcoming detectors may constrain the source models. He also discussed neutrino detection in ice/water Cherenkov experiments and how flavor tagging may be used to learn about astrophysics of the sources.Abstract: Surface-induced bond energy variations, computed by the NRL tight-binding (TB) method, are incorporated as an elemental interaction model in the statistical-mechanical free energy concentration expansion method (FCEM) [1]. First, segregation profiles computed for free Pt-Rh surfaces are used as a test case, yielding good agreement with reported experimental data, and highlighting the role of subsurface tensions in the emergence of oscillatory profiles even in the absence of alloy mixing tendency [2].The second part involves 923 atom cuboctahedron clusters of Pd-Cu that reveal core and surface segregated mixed-type ordering, whereas Pd-Rh tends to separate into clusters exhibiting distinct demixed order [3]. At high temperatures, the clusters exhibit atomic disordering followed by desegregation processes, all reflected in cluster-size dependent Schottky-type configurational heat capacity peaks [3,4]. Comparing Pd-Cu with Pd-Cu-Rh reveals distinct ternary alloying effects. The role of the TB computed bond energy variations in the segregation related phenomena is demonstrated.Ernesto V. Abel-Santos, Ph.D. joins the chemistry department from the Albert Einstein College of Medicine, where he served as assistant professor in the department of biochemistry. Abel-Santos received his Ph.D. (Biology and Biological Sciences) from Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis, Missouri. He also served as a post-doctoral scholar at Pennsylvania State University where his research interests include the production of cyclic peptide libraries in vivo; screening of biologically active compounds; the evolution of hybrid enzymes by transposon-mediated protein libraries; and the kinetics of leading and lag