5722018492	In light of these discoveries, Dr. Walker and his colleagues sought to mimic this vigorous T-helper cell response by using potent antiretroviral therapy to suppress viremia during acute HIV infection. Their intent was to limit virus-mediated destruction of HIV-specific T-helper cell responses. The group was able to demonstrate, in 11 of 11 individuals treated during the acute stage of infection, HIV-specific T-helper cell responses and robust cytotoxic T-lymphocyte responses, both of which were absent prior to therapy.Within three to seven months of the initiation of therapy, all 11 subjects were found to have strong T-cell and CTL responses, with corresponding reductions in viral load. It remains to be seen if these individuals have in fact developed the ability to control viremia without antiretroviral therapy in the period since these important immune responses were fostered.As Dr. Walker emphasized, there appears to be a relatively narrow window of opportunity following HIV infection for interventions designed to bolster immune function. Individuals with chronic infection and progressive disease often fail to mount T-cell and CTL responses, even with aggressive antiretroviral therapy and even when viral loads fall to undetectable levels.The data from ACTG 315 also show that 48 weeks of therapy with this particular three-drug combination produces decreases in markers of cellular activation and decreased apoptosis in tonsillar tissues. These findings were buttressed by Jaramillo et al., who presented data demonstrating a trend toward normalization of the CD4 repertoire following combination therapy lasting more than 15 months. Improvements in immune function were also reported by Markert et al., who found improved lymphocyte proliferative responses to recall antigens and neo-antigens in treated patients.The mood at the 5th Conference on Retroviruses and Opportunistic Infections was one of enthusiasm -- and relief -- as presentation after presentation reaffirmed the widespread belief that HAART had drastically reduced the incidence of OIs in patients with advanced HIV disease. These findings accelerate a trend that began before the advent of HAART, presumably due to a combination of earlier intervention, more effective prophylaxis, combination nucleoside therapy, and improved clinical recognition and care.Michaels, Clark, and Kissinger from New Orleans conducted a retrospective study of a cohort of patients with CD4 counts below 200 cells/mm3. They compared the rates of OIs 18 months before and 18 months after the availability of protease inhibitors. The most striking declines were seen in the incidence of PCP, which fell from 18% to 11.7%, and in the incidence of wasting, which dropped from 9.5% to 4.8%. The investigators did not comment on the role that prophylaxis may have played in effecting this trend.Dr. Judith Currier presented a very thorough overview of the decreasing incidence of OIs. As she indicated, study after study supports the contention that maximally suppressive antiretroviral therapy has dramatically reduced the number of OIs seen in patients with advanced HIV disease -- but these infections do continue to occur. As my colleague Dr. Steven Deeks noted, a significant number of patients experience "virologic failure" -- rebound of viral load after suppression with HAART -- yet these patients still have stable CD4 counts and have not progressed clinically.We are still faced with many unanswered questions regarding immune reconstitution. OIs still exist. They may be diminished in number and severity, but significant morbidity and mortality does occur. Several clinical trials, ongoing or in development, will address the issue of discontinuing prophylaxis for MAC and PCP and of discontinuing therapy for CMV and MAC. Until they provide us with a better picture of what is happening in these patients, I recommend that clinicians follow the guidelines issued by the Infectious Disease Society of America and continue prophylaxis and maintenance therapy regardless of how high a patient's CD4 count rises.Prior to the introduction of highly-active antiretroviral therapy, disseminated MAC infection was one of the most common life-threatening opportunistic infections seen in patients with advanced HIV infection. DMAC occurred almost exclusively in patients with CD4 counts below 50 cells/mm3. Prognosis was poor: even with optimal antimycobacterial treatment, median survival was only eight to nine months from the time of diagnosis. Despite the widespread use of a multidrug macrolide-based regimen, relapses were common. There were no reports of microbiologic cure of MAC on this regimen, so the standard of care was to continue treatment for the rest of the patient's life.The advent of HAART has changed this picture, as it has changed so much about the treatment of HIV infection and its sequelae. A group at San Francisco General Hospital reports that four of their patients who developed disseminated infection when their CD4 counts fell below 50 cells/mm3 have apparently been cured by a combination of HAART plus antimycobacterial therapy for DMAC. After more than a year of antimicrobial therapy and HAART all four were asymptomatic and medically stable. Antimicrobial therapy was withdrawn after both peripheral blood cultures and bone marrow cultures were sterile for MAC. All subsequent cultures on all four patients have been negative (range: 5-10 months), and all four of these patients remain clinically asymptomatic.To our knowledge this is the first report of the successful discontinuation of antimycobacterial therapy for DMAC in patients with AIDS after presumed immune reconstitution following HAART. There were no reports of microbiologic cure in the pre-HAART era. Although median survival with optimal antimycobacterial therapy in the pre-HAART era was less than one year, our four patients were asymptomatic after one year of combined antimycobacterial therapy and potent antiretroviral therapy, had sterile blood and bone marrow cultures, and had no clinical or microbiologic evidence of MAC relapse up to ten months after discontinuing antimycobacterial therapy. These observations suggest that AIDS-related DMAC can be cured in patients who demonstrate immunologic improvement with HAART. ACTG 393, now in development, will further elucidate which patients can safely discontinue MAC maintenance therapy.Studies are needed to further characterize the immunopathogenesis of DMAC, so that those patients at highest risk for disseminated infection can be identified. It would then be possible to target prophylaxis or pre-emptive therapy for that population -- and then discontinue that treatment if HAART restores the immune responses associated with MAC protection. A better understanding of these immune mechanisms would help clinicians predict which patients with DMAC can be expected to be cured of their infection after a course of antimycobacterial treatment, and it would also provide data for the development of immune-based therapies.The first member of what might be considered a fourth class of anti-HIV agents is now in Phase III clinical trials. Adefovir dipivoxil is a decoy for reverse transcriptase, which mistakenly adds the tri-phosphorylated form of the drug to a DNA chain, thus terminating it. Nucleotides consist of a nitrogen-containing base, a five-carbon sugar moiety, and a phosphate group. Earlier drugs, like ZDV, ddI, and ddC, are analogs of nucleosides, which are the same as nucleotides but without a phosphate group.Three phosphates are eventually needed to provide the energy to keep the DNA chain growing. The enzyme that adds the first phosphate group is only expressed in certain cells at certain times, a fact that limits the antiretroviral activity of nucleoside analogs. Nucleotides are one step ahead of the game, with the first phosphate already in place. A separate enzyme, one found in a wider variety of cells for longer periods of time, adds the other two phosphate groups.Since adefovir requires only the more broadly available enzyme, it should be a more versatile drug than the venerable nucleoside analogs. Adefovir was recently assessed in a small, randomized, placebo-controlled trial over a period of 16 weeks. Treatment was for 12 weeks, and patients were re-evaluated four weeks after cessation of any antiretroviral therapy. The 72 patients recruited for this study had a median baseline CD4 count of 339 cells/mm3 and RNA level of 4.9 logs. During the first six weeks of the trial, two-thirds of the participants received drug, of which half took 125 mg once daily and the other half took 250 mg once daily. The remaining patients were randomized to placebo.After six weeks, everyone was given open-label drug. As a group, the patients had significant prior antiretroviral exposure, with median duration ranging from 2.3 years in the low-dose arm to 3.5 years in the original placebo group. This difference between drug and placebo recipients was statistically significant.Changes in CD4 counts were not particularly impressive, but after six weeks of therapy there was a small, significant rise in CD4 counts among patients assigned to the 125-mg dose. The authors were puzzled that this benefit was not seen in patients on the higher dose.  HIV RNA responses were more consistent.A statistically significant decline in HIV RNA levels was noted in drug recipients at both dose levels after six weeks. RNA rebounded close to baseline during the four weeks off treatment. Placebo recipients had no change in HIV RNA from baseline to six weeks, but they did exhibit a decline in viral levels after being switched to drug.Adefovir also has in vitro activity against CMV and other viruses. The authors conducted a subset analysis of 18 patients who had positive CMV titers in semen samples. Of the 13 evaluable patients, all drug recipients (n=10) showed a decrease in semen CMV halfway through the trial. By contrast, the thre