5722018499	Legal access to wildlife and other resources also requires the removal of a wide range of barriers to access. National parks in some parts of Africa play a leading role in providing health care services, potable water, rural electrification and employment opportunities.Many of the case studies presented, and many people in discussion around these cases, pointed to the importance of employment as a very significant factor for households. The point was made that most people in the world are in employment, and only a minority has created his/her own business.There are employment opportunities in all aspects of the tourism industry and jobs are welcomed particularly where training and skill enhancement is part of the package. Employment opportunities are valued as well as micro-enterprise development opportunities in guiding, craft production, in the provision of food and accommodation. There are other benefits that can come from tourism through various forms of leasehold arrangements, such as sponsored projects in health and education, revenue sharing and levies and also through donations directly from tourists and tour companies to local community projects.On the other hand, it is unreasonable to expect the local community to carry the risk and responsibility to manage tourism projects with full and equal access to the tourism market as owners and partners. As was argued in Maputo the land tenure system remains a constraint, particularly in communal land areas. There are many stakeholders and they all need to be included, and this problematic challenge is exacerbated by the fragmentation of the tourism industry itself.Communities that have land rights restituted to them are then able to make viable business partnerships and to contribute to the maintenance of the parks. Land is the contribution that communities can make to joint ventures. Village land can be included into larger conservation areas as part of their stake in the protected area. Equity shares are mechanisms for realising benefits for local people. It is important to create and recognise usufruct rights.Co-ordination between government departments is essential if community-public-private sector partnerships are to be successful, as their viability is dependent upon the whole policy framework within which they operate and many government departments affect this.It was argued at the Seminar that there is a lack of awareness of tourism among African local communities, and that as long as they have no awareness of tourism they will not engage in it. Local communities need to appreciate the benefits and the demerits of tourism. By granting local communities rights over land they are enabled to secure income from tourism developments on their land. Leasing concessions for the use of the communally owned land creates income for the trust funds. It was pointed out that it is important for governments to ensure that communities are trained to administer joint ventures, as without capacity building it is difficult to sustain an equitable approach to management. Capacity building is essential if local communities are to become real stakeholders in tourism and conservation.A number of important points were made about management and its dependence on capacity building. Quality and service standards were identified as important in ecotourism as in other sectors of the African tourism industry.This and the enhanced employment of local people require continuous skills development. Local economic linkages need to be encouraged for local sourcing and local business development. The fundamental principle of business sustainability requires that business plans have to envisage the development of self-reliance. Profitability has to be achieved if initiatives are to be judged a success. Sustainability requires that an adequate marketing budget is covered from revenue.The provision of interpretation, information and ensuring that visitors are aware of opportunities to experience the wildlife, habitat or culture of the area, as well as associated risks ensures customer satisfaction and creates additional possibilities for income to local communities.Africa has very large areas of diverse natural habitat with attractive landscapes and flora, large populations of charismatic mega fauna from the Big 5 of the savannahs, through the gorillas of central Africa to the birds of Africa north and west of the Sahara. These natural heritage assets are significant to the development of ecotourism in Africa.Africa has unique and diverse cultures, the everyday lives of people, the ways in which they interact with their environments and the cultures which they create are of considerable interest to tourists. The rich and diverse cultures of Africa have long been neglected in the construction of the continent's tourism. The diverse cultural heritage of Africa - the crafts, literature, art, dance and music - are as unique to Africa as its wildlife, and is a considerable asset in the development of forms of tourism which celebrate the continent's biological and cultural diversity.The potential of ecotourism to benefit local communities and conservation is being recognised in Africa and there is enthusiasm for it. A host of examples were presented at this WTO Ecotourism Seminar. Africa's natural heritage attracts relatively wealthy international and domestic consumers to marginal and poor rural areas. This provides opportunities to use tourism for local economic development, and to develop clusters of products and services in communities which can be marketed to international, regional and domestic tourists. Concern was expressed about some communities becoming over-dependent upon tourism and the importance of all forms of tourism being integrated into appropriate broadly based local economic development plans was emphasised.Ecotourism is an important mechanism for realising an income for local communities from their natural and cultural capital, and for the conservation of those resources. The assets of the poor include wildlife and culture, and 2002 presents an excellent platform to display Africa's success stories.WTO has been actively involved in conducting research and tourism planning projects, preparing publications, organizing and participating in international and regional meetings with a view to fostering the sustainable development of tourism in Small Island Developing States (SIDS) and other islands. The Seychelles Conference was a timely merger of this series of activities with the IYE process, given the importance and specific characteristics of ecotourism in island destinations.Islands are among the most visited tourist destinations in the world. They are vulnerable territories with limited resources and delicate ecosystems. Although in many touristically developed islands the classical activity is sun-beach tourism, the potentials of ecotourism are great, given that most islands host unique terrestrial flora and fauna with high number of endemic species, exotic coral reefs and marine ecosystems, plus special geological features and attractive landscapes. In many islands, communities preserve traditions and living cultures that are also of great interest for sensitive and educated visitors.The Seychelles Conference was organized by WTO, jointly with the Seychelles Government, aiming at offering a forum where stakeholders from all major groups concerned with sustainable development and management of ecotourism in Small Island Developing States and other islands could exchange experiences by presenting case studies and conducting in depth debates on this subject.The World Tourism Organization would like to thank the Seychelles Government and its Ministry of Tourism and Transport for the excellent logistical arrangements, coordination and support in hosting this Conference. WTO would also like to thank the participants of this Conference for their significant contribution through the case study presentations and debates.The natural and economic particularities of tourism in SIDS and other small islands make it less useful to focus only on ecotourism (in a stricter sense). For these destinations, focusing on the broader concept of sustainable tourism is often a more effective policy position; though ecotourism can lead and set the benchmarks with regard to contribution to and protection of the natural and cultural environments in these places.In small islands ecotourism should be considered in the wider spectrum of tourism activities related to the natural and cultural environments, provided that these activities are fully compatible with nature conservation efforts. National tourism plans based entirely on ecotourism risk losing credibility within their own political system; failing to meet consumer expectations; and raising suspicion and criticism of conservation-based organisations when the majority of the basic stock of the local tourism infrastructure (accommodation, attractions, transport and services) was not designed for ecotourism and/or is not environmentally friendly and/or the management/owners are not environmentally aware/active.Formulating a common vision should be an initial step in strategic planning processes for sustainable tourism and ecotourism development. This needs to involve all stakeholders, representing wider government and community, the tourism industry, as well as non-governmental organizations, and to balance their interests. The tourism policy document of Seychelles, Vision 21, can be considered as a good example of a concerted visioning exercise at the national level in a small island developing state, and demonstrating the benefits of the support of non-tourism sectors as well.Given the importance of tourism in SIDS and other small islands, and the relatively reduced number of intervening factors, these destinations provide a unique venue for developing models for sustainable planning and management of ecotourism and other forms of tour