5722018442	After 24 hours, have the students peel off the paper cup to reveal the pretend sedimentary rock. Doing this as a group will allow the children to compare rocks and talk about how their rocks are made of different size particles.Marie Faust Evitt, a teacher at the Mountain View Parent Nursery School in Mountain View, California, is always on the lookout for stories that incorporate accurate science. She finds children absorb information more easily through an engaging tale. These are some of her favorites featuring geology and rocks.BooksThe Sun, the Wind, and the Rain. Lisa Westberg Peters. 1988. Henry Holt.This beautifully illustrated book provides an excellent introduction to geologic processes by comparing the creation and evolution of mountains with a sand hill that a girl builds at the beach. Children can readily see the connection between their own experiences with sand and the weathering of the natural landscape.As students bring in items, have them assign the item a number and write down on some kind of an entry form a description including the type, color, size (diameter measurement or relative size), any special features, and where they collected it.After the items have been collected, have each student sort the items (such as lids) in the collection according to groupings they determine. This could be done over a week, individually or in small groups. Color is often the first attribute that students sort by. Other categories include size, screw-on or snap-on, type of container (water, soda, or sports drink bottles, ketchup bottle, mayonnaise jar, or milk jug), and one-piece or flip-top.It is convenient to begin with a collection of human-made items but students should also work with a collection of natural items to build knowledge about the natural world. Establishing and maintaining a collection can be a lifelong activity. Finding a purpose in and passion for collecting does not end with adulthood, as evidenced by the existence of museums, collectors? conventions, and the National Association of Collectors.Susan J. Johnson is a preschool teacher in Alexandria, Virginia, and an assistant professor in Early Childhood Education at Northern Virginia Community College. She begins the year with a literacy component to give children direction in their natural tendency to collect. These are some of her favorite resources for this work.If You Find a Rock. Peggy Christian and Barbara Lember. 2000. Harcourt.Full of photographs and suggestions on how rocks might be used, this book helps children observe rocks everywhere and begin to speculate on what kind of rock they have found. Further exploration often leads to discovering that some rocks are actually bits of concrete and the realization that the sand in our sandbox is made up of rocks.Sylvester and the Magic Pebble. William Steig. 2006. Aladdin.A classic tale with many themes including examining pebbles, wishes, and what it would be like to be a rock! This book opens the door for discussion on what is real and what is pretend.Measuring attributes of length, volume, weight, area, and time are introduced in early childhood play with blocks, at the water table, by using simple scales, with fabric squares, and with timers. Experiences in comparing two similar but not identical objects such as blocks or bowls lay the foundation for precise measurements in later lessons.Count Us In, Australian Broadcasting Corporationwww.abc.net.au/countusin/default.htmSelf-correcting online games help children explore a variety of math concepts, from counting to estimating capacity, without becoming frustrated.One way to help all children learn to ask and answer questions is to invite the children to predict what they think will happen next in a book any time you read aloud. Practice is fun with the book Fortunately (Charlip 1993). The story has a pattern, and every page is an opportunity for students to ask (and answer) what will happen next in the book.A group of objects of various weights and surfaces, small enough to fit into the containers: a Ping-Pong ball, a plastic egg, various blocks, a large coin, a small paper cup, a feather, a cotton ball, and a marble. Use objects that are familiar to the students.Mary Ann Hoffman is an English as a Second Language Teacher in Alexandria, Virginia, and the parent of four young children. She believes that children acquire language skills and are inspired to ask questions when they investigate new concepts using as many senses and methods as possible.Classify Insects: Zoom in on True Bugshttp://teacher.scholastic.com/activities/explorations/bug/level1/investigate.htmClick on the name of a tool to see a photograph of it being used by an entomologist.Afterwards, discuss these questions with the class: Did the object do what you predicted? What shapes are the Objects That Rolled? What shapes are the Objects That Slid? Students will discover that a round, or nearly round, profile is necessary for rolling. To assess for understanding of how shape can predict movement, ask the students to draw a picture of one object in the room that would roll down the ramp and one that would slide down.Juliana Texley, lead reviewer for NSTA Recommends, shares a few favorite resources about simple machines and design technology. Books for elementary physical science are hard to find, and those with accurate language and illustrations even harder. Here are a few that have been recognized as outstanding.I Fall Down. Vicki Cobb. 2004. HarperCollins.This visually appealing and conceptually sound physical science book introduces young children to the concepts of gravity and weight. The concepts are reinforced through many real-life examples and fun activities that could easily be duplicated in class or at home.I began to understand in more depth the idea of social engagement at the computer when a college student from the local university sat with a student and talked about and pointed to the images on the screen as the student controlled the mouse. Taking their picture and later asking the student to tell me a story or what she sees sealed my belief that computer use can be beneficial.Have students remove one shoe and sock and look at their foot and describe it, either verbally or in writing. Prompt students with questions such as, How many toes do you have? What can you do with your toes? Can you hold a crayon or scratch an itch with your toes? What part of your foot touches the floor when you walk, tiptoe, or jump?Spread newspapers on the floor and have a stack of paper towels nearby for cleanup so children can wipe the paint off their own foot. Have some students, one at a time, put one foot into paint and then step onto a piece of paper. Have them repeat the printmaking on tiptoe. Invite other students to step into playdough and make imprints of their foot. Have them repeat the imprint making on tiptoe.One Small Place in a Tree. Barbara Brenner. 2004. HarperCollins.Reading this history of a hole in a tree invites us to imagine all of the plants and animals that may have lived in and drawn life from the tree, even after it has died.Teachers do not control the food that is purchased or prepared for their students, and we are usually not in a position to offer teeth brushing in the classroom. So, what can we do to influence our students? food choices and dental health? As science educators we can encourage investigations and teach information that can be used in supporting good dental health.When is the moment that a seed sprouts, or sediment accumulates, or a cavity has eaten into a tooth? It is difficult for young children to grasp that the cumulative effect of many small changes over time can be significant. Watching the change in eggshells over time as they sit in a bath of vinegar can help children accept that hard materials can indeed be damaged by a small daily change.Introduce the terms incisor, canine, premolar (bicuspid), and molar. View a diagram of human teeth and have the children point to the different types of teeth, especially if they are unable to draw teeth well enough to depict recognizable differences between them.Wilburn Elementary Tooth Tally Projecthttp://wilburnes.wcpss.net/tooth.htmFirst graders from around the world tally how many teeth are lost each month in their classes. In its eighth year, the project runs from February through April. The site also offers lesson ideas to integrate science with the rest of the curriculum and links to other dental sites.The University of Michigan Dentistry Librarywww.lib.umich.edu/dentlib/about/exhibits/kidsThis site offers suggestions on what to look for in a book about dental health and lists books that are accurate and reflect what the dental profession might say.Sometimes parents need to be nudged and reminded of examples of healthy snacks to send to school. Teachers can send home a list of appropriate snacks and post it on their website or include it in weekly newsletters. Suggestions could be a small sandwich, fresh fruit, animal crackers, fig newtons, granola bars, fruit juice, water, and nuts. Be aware of students who have peanut allergies. Ask parents to stay away from cake, cookies, puffy chips, roll ups, donuts, etc. As an extension, teachers can bring in the topic of dental care and brushing teeth. Perhaps some of you have students that keep a toothbrush at school to practice good dental hygiene during the school day? Everyone needs a reminder once in awhile.Chemistry explorations in early childhood classrooms often involve baking, mixing, or dissolving, during which students predict outcomes and try to replicate the results. The objective is to help students come to understand that even though we cannot see what is happening to cause a change, we can see that the change happens every time we follow a certain procedure.Using nonstandard units to measure is appropriate for young children whose knowledge of number symbols and fine-motor skills are not developed well enough to 