5722018489	Melbourne’s climate is temperate with four distinct seasons. In Summer, with many days frequently over 30 oc, the city’s beaches are popular, while the mountains near the city are frequently snow capped during winter.Melbourne is often referred to as Australia’s restaurant capital. This is not surprising considering that the city is home to more than 3,000 restaurants. This means you’ll easily find something to suit your taste and price range.Living on-campus can be great for students who have never lived out of home before. Unfortunately at this stage, families cannot be accommodated within the Monash University student residential system. Students in this situation can get help finding off-campus rental accommodation from the Monash Residential Services website or the International Student Support Unit.Homestay offers more than a place to live, it’s like being part of a family. Homestay provides a safe, caring environment in which you live with a family in their home and is available to domestic and international students. For international students this is a perfect way to become immersed in the Australian way of life and will benefit from practicing your English skills with your host family. You are provided with meals, your own bedroom and study facilities. Available at all campuses except Gippsland.This option involves renting a room in a private house where other people are already living. Up to two meals a day can be provided for you and you have full use of the facilities. Your basic requirements such as washing, cleaning and ironing are also generally included in the fee.This includes a furnished room and breakfast. If you prefer to do your own cooking then this option will suit you as you provide your own main meals. You also need to do your own laundry and cleaning.Hostels can provide single or shared accommodation that is usually furnished. In most hostels you share a lounge, bathroom, laundry and cooking facilities with other residents. Facilities vary between hostels but most include servicing of rooms. Staying in a hostel also gives you independence and the opportunity to make contact with other students from different cultures.This includes houses, flats or apartments. There are significant establishment costs involved in renting including security bond, and connection for electricity, gas and telephone. You may need to buy your own furniture and household goods. If you are sharing a flat, apartment or house everyone shares the kitchen, bathroom, laundry and living rooms. You have your own bedroom. Renting offers you the greatest freedom yet requires more responsibility than all the accommodation options.Before commencing your studies, it’s good to prepare by calculating your budget – including the costs of accommodation, food, personal expenses, books, stationery, clothing, travel and entertainment – all the expenses not included in your tuition and study fees.NB. These tables are provided as a rough guide only and do include tuition fees, mobile phone charges, internet service fees or motor vehicle expenses. The figures are only estimates, are subject to inflation and will vary depending on location, lifestyle and preferences.A free shuttle bus service operates between the Clayton, Caulfield, Berwick and Peninsula campuses during the semester and examination periods. Services run every 15 minutes between Caulfield and Clayton campuses, every 40 minutes between Clayton and Berwick, and approximately every 2 hours between Clayton and Peninsula.Monash University  is more than a place to study. We offer the opportunity to join a community  that supports academic achievement, personal growth, cultural exchange and the  development of lasting global friendships.All enrolled students can contribute to the running of the University's student associations. These associations provide services including counselling and advice, student newspapers, subsidised childcare, Austudy and Youth Allowance advice, representation and advice in academic appeals, as well as cultural, social and recreational programs.The MPA serves the interests and  welfare of all postgraduate students by directing its activities towards  their specific needs, offering representation, information, and advocacy. The MPA organises seminars, workshops and social functions to encourage communication with and between postgraduate students in the different  disciplines. MPA cooperates with other organisations and committees to achieve  the best possible outcome for postgraduate students. For more information, contact the Clayton office between 9 am and 5 pm weekdays on +61 3 9905 3197 or email mpa@monash.edu.au.It is easy to keep fit and be involved in  both competitive and recreational sporting activities at Monash campuses. The  Sports and Recreation Association provides a huge range of options and  facilities -- including a swimming pool, gym, classes in yoga or aerobics, to the football and soccer fields, cricket pitches, and tennis, squash and badminton courts.The Monash Research Graduate School administers a wide range of doctoral programs and the Master of Philosophy  degree in addition to coordinating the University's postgraduate research training activities and research scholarships. The school operates the Monash Research Graduate Centre, which provides research students with a central meeting place  for study, social, leisure and cultural activities.The centre offers a wide  range of study environments to suit the type of research program being  undertaken, including office accommodation, computer laboratories and a large multi-purpose seminar, lounge, dining and meeting area.Monash University Careers and Employment helps students find casual or part-time work whilst studying. They provide access to an online job system advertising vacancies for students. This remains available to you after graduation.The Language and Learning Services Unit(LLS) provides free assistance to help you improve your written and oral expression, as well as your skills in reading, listening to lectures, note-taking and approaches to study.The Monash University International Admissions Office have experienced staff who can assist international students with how to apply. They can also provide information and advice about settling into life in Australia, cultural adjustment, your student visa, healthcare, finding your way around the University and more.For pastoral and spiritual care, there are  chaplains available on campus from all religious denominations and places  provided for worship. There are also meaningful programs to meet the unique social, religious and cultural needs of students from diverse backgrounds.The Family and Child Care Service is a centralised service for all campuses, based at Clayton campus and can assists students and staff to link into on-campus child care centres, and to access information on other child care options. The service provides help with parenting, work, study and family issues, and offers advice on selecting the most suitable child care arrangements for each family. The service also provides vacation care programs for children aged 5 to 14 years. Information is  available on rebates and resources for children and families.Financial advisers are available to confidentially assist students with a variety of financial matters such as student loans, Youth Allowance, Austudy, HECS-HELP fees, financial planning and budgeting.Postgraduate awards are for  students who already have an undergraduate award and want to study further.  Some postgraduate degrees may accept work experience instead of a bachelors degree as a basis for entry. Other postgraduate degrees require both. Awards include: graduate certificates, graduate diplomas, postgraduate diplomas and masters.Higher degrees by research are special postgraduate courses focused on an original research project. Entry  usually requires an honours year of study or an equivalent postgraduate qualification. Awards include: Doctor of Philosophy (PhDs), professional doctorates, masters by research and Master of Philosophy.Courses of less than ten months may have visa implications for international students. For further information on your options concerning graduate certificates, please visit the Monash International website.With a postgraduate diploma, you can complete a one-year program to build upon studies you have completed at bachelor degree level. Students generally take on a postgraduate diploma to enhance career options, or as preparation for further graduate study by coursework or research.A masters preliminary or qualifying year amounts to a year of coursework or a program that has coursework and research combined. The program is designed to prepare you for masters level studies by either coursework or research.A masters degree by coursework is a subject based program at the higher degree level. Some programs offer a research component. Students who undertake a masters degree by coursework are usually seeking to extend their knowledge and skills and enhance their career options.Research students enrolled in a masters or doctorate by 100 per cent research do not attend classes, but are required to attend campus on a regular basis to undertake an independent research project under the guidance of an experienced academic supervisor or supervisors. Research students will also be required to attend regular departmental seminars and present their research at appropriate forums, locally, nationally and internationally.A masters degree by research is a program that enables you to undertake substantial and independent research under expert academic supervision. Some masters degrees by research include a coursework component of up to 33 per cent. Students usually undertake a masters degree by research with the aim of enhancing their research skills and techniques or as preparation for doctoral studies. If eligible, you may upgrade from masters to