5722018435	We reject this argument because section 5340 does not clearly impose a time requirement on when the billing by providers must occur. Rather, it can reasonably be read as requiring that, when billing does occur, it must be documented. Under the California system, provider billing of all third party liable resources was documented. Section 2089 of the California Medicaid Procedures Manual requires Regional Centers to bill insurance companies prior to seeking reimbursement from Medicaid for claims with other health coverage and requires them to maintain documentation of their efforts to recover third party reimbursement.California Ex. 43, Att. C. The fact that this billing and documentation occurs subsequent to California's claims for FFP for TCM services without other health coverage is not relevant to whether documentation occurs. Again, HCFA has focused on the timing of the billing and documentation process rather than the fact that California had a system for requiring billing as a prerequisite to claiming under Medicaid.Nor did the delay of some Regional Centers in billing third parties prejudice HCFA's legitimate interest in ensuring that states recover all possible third party reimbursement and that HCFA not participate in unnecessary costs. In this case, HCFA never disputed California's representation that its MEDS system eliminated claims with other health coverage from the federal claiming process until the Regional Centers completed their billing procedures. Therefore, not only did California's system satisfy all federal standards for cost avoidance systems, it also satisfied the purpose of those requirements: it excluded claims with potential health insurance coverage from the federal claiming process.Finally, while the majority of Regional Centers did not have functioning billing systems prior to the end of the disallowance period, the Regional Centers were not precluded from later billing for services which they had previously provided. In fact, this was required as a prerequisite for resubmitting a Medicaid claim. Information gathered by HCFA in the course of its review indicates that, after the end of the disallowance period, all of the Regional Centers either had billed or assured they would bill retroactively for services provided from July 1, 1988 for which other health coverage had been identified by the MEDS system. 11/ See HCFA Ex. AA and BB. For the preceding reasons, we conclude that, for all TCM services provided July 1, 1988 or after, California had established a cost avoidance system which satisfied applicable standards and prevented federal participation in costs which might be paid by insurance until providers had attempted to obtain such payment. Consequently, these services were not provided "without charge."In order to compensate for its inability to identify and eliminate specific claims, California reduced the total units of TCM services provided by each of these four centers by 10%, a percent which it represented exceeded the units provided to recipients with other health coverage. State Ex. 55. It then multiplied the reduced number of units by the unit rate of each of the centers to calculate its FFP claim. Id.California's methodology for this period did not constitute seeking third party reimbursement and therefore these services were available "without charge." California's third party reimbursement system is premised on the correlation of specific recipients with specific services and insurance coverage. The applicable requirements governing California's third party liability system do not contemplate reducing an FFP claim based on an estimate.The fact that California's inability to use its MEDS system to identify specific claims resulted from the length of time HCFA took to approve the amendment does not excuse California's inability to identify these claims. From almost the beginning of the amendment process, California program officials represented to HCFA that they would apply California's third party system to seek reimbursement for these costs. They knew or should have known that they could honor this representation only if they devised a way to retain the necessary information concerning other health coverage for individual TCM services. While a 10% reduction was a method for avoiding costs to the federal government, it was not a cost avoidance system meeting applicable state and federal requirements for seeking third party reimbursement.California argued that what California did should be viewed in the context of the real world, in which no health insurer is going to pay for TCM services in any event. California argued that the Board had recognized this in its prior decision, and that HCFA had acknowledged it to some extent by approving a plan amendment waiving cost avoidance in a slightly different context for other types of health services.As HCFA pointed out, however, with respect to the other health services mentioned by California, California had sought and obtained a waiver for application of a cost avoidance system. California did not do this with respect to TCM services, instead determining that TCM claims with other health coverage should be remitted to the Regional Centers for billing.Under a pay and recover system, the state pays the provider and then seeks reimbursement from the third party. Where probable existence of third party liability is established at the time a provider claim is filed, a state must use cost avoidance unless it has obtained a waiver from HCFA to use pay and recover. 42 C.F.R.  433.139(b). Where probable liability has not been established or benefits are not available at the time the claim is filed, a state may pay the provider and proceed itself against the third party. 42 C.F.R.  433.139(c).As part of its third party liability plan, California maintained a pay and recover system for seeking third party reimbursement when probable liability was not established or benefits were not available at the time the claim was filed. For TCM cases, this system involved recovery of TCM costs from tort-feasors and liability insurance companies.HCFA did not review California's pay and recover system. The parties faulted one another for the fact that HCFA did not review this part of California's system. California argued that it did not submit additional information because HCFA did not request it and therefore California had concluded that HCFA regarded the system as acceptable.We conclude that it is appropriate to consider California's pay and recover system in determining whether California sought third party reimbursement for these services. First, DAB No. 1285 made it clear that California's pay and recover system should be considered in whether TCM services were "without charge." DAB No. 1285, at 15-19. Second, we do not read HCFA's requests for specific information from California as being directed to its pay and recover system. Moreover, HCFA was informed that the Board would consider California's pay and recover evidence prior to close of the record and prior to the final conference call in this case. HCFA did not offer contradictory evidence, did not request an opportunity to conduct a further review of California's system, and did not request a hearing in which to cross- examine California's declarants.DHS administers California's pay and recover system to recoup monies resulting from settlements and judgments obtained by Medi-Cal beneficiaries in personal injury actions. This system, or one essentially like it, has been in place since prior to the disallowance period. California Ex. 49, Declaration of Patricia A. Masuda, Chief of Personal Injury Unit, Third Party Liability Branch at 1. Pursuant to the system, DHS opens a recovery file on Medi-Cal beneficiaries whenever it has evidence of possible a possible personal injury action; determines through the Medi-Cal computer system how much Medi-Cal has paid on behalf of the recipient; files a Medi-Cal lien for these expenses; and recovers amounts to satisfy the lien. California Ex. 49, Third Party Liability Plan at 15.Prior to the submission of SPA 87-15, DHS operated this pay and recovery system pursuant to section 14124.71(a) of the California Welfare and Institutions Code. That statute provides that when Medi-Cal benefits have been or will be provided to a Medi-Cal recipient because of an injury for which another person is liable, or for which a carrier is liable, DHS may recover from the person or carrier the reasonable value of the benefits. While California maintained that this pre-existing statutory authority was sufficient to enable it to recover the costs of Medi-Cal TCM services (California Ex. 41), California supplemented its general mandate with statutory provisions specific to TCM services.In addition to amending its statutory authorization for its pay and recovery system, California included tort- feasor recovery in its inter-agency contracts between DHS and DDS. Section IV.I.1. of the 1987 contract provided that DHS would periodically review DDS' listing of TCM clients to identify cases with related tort actions and that Regional Centers were obligated to notify DDS of cases involving tort liability.California represented that it applied its pay and recover system to TCM costs by seeking to recover the costs of services to recipients with possible claims against third parties. State Ex. 49, Declaration at 1.Medicaid recipients with a DHS recovery file, the reports identify the recipient, the Regional Center providing the service, the charges, and the dates of service. The reports demonstrate that the TCM pay and recovery system was statewide, i.e., DHS received data and sought recovery for TCM services provided by all of the 21 Regional Centers."was in place during the disallowance period," we do not find this objection dispositive of whether these services were provided "without charge." HCFA again focused on the timing of the final implementation rather tha