5722018481	Consisting of a single room, sharing facilities with other. These can be located in private homes and in all bedsit properties. Bills are usually extra and you will usually supply your own linen, towels and utensils.Check if your landlord is registered. From 30th April 2006, all private landlords letting properties in Scotland must have applied for registration in the register of landlords. Resident landlords letting part of their own home are exempt under this scheme.The aim of landlord registration is to ensure that all private landlords in Scotland are 'fit and proper' to be letting residential property. The requirement will help local authorities to remove disreputable landlords from the market and protect tenants and their neighbours from the impact of antisocial behaviour and mismanaged property on the wider community.For further information on landlord registration across Scotland: www.betterrentingscotland.com Rents and Deposits You should know exactly how much the rent is, when and how you pay. It is better to pay by cheque, or to be sure you get a receipt if paying by cash.Don't forget you must be sure of being able to keep up with the rent payments before you commit yourself. Most landlords require a deposit to cover any damage to the property or its contents, and to cover any outstanding bills at the end of the tenancy. It is usually about one month's rent, and is recoverable at the end of the tenancy, as long as no damage has been done and all bills have been paid. Remember to keep all receipts until the end of the contract and deposits have been refunded.Purchasing a Flat or House You or your parents may be considering, as an option to renting, the purchase of a house or flat. It is important to realise that if you buy a flat or house and arrange for others to live in the flat with you, you may be creating a "house in multiple occupation".The University also operates a University Health Service (not part of the state provision) with customised provision for students. There is also a network of welfare provision. We suggest you ask for a copy of the University's Welfare leaflet at Freshers' Week. All students are required to register with a local doctor - information will be sent or made available to all students occupying University owned accommodation.The International Student Advisor is located in No.1 The Square. The advisor is able to help students with the practical aspects of living and studying in Glasgow. They also liaise with other individuals and organisations with similar aims. They are able to advise on problems associated with accommodation, police registration, banking matters, school enrolment etc.The constituent accommodation to be cost effective, legislatively compliant and comprising a range and depth of options. These should be capable of actively supporting students in a context geared to academic achievement and extracurricular enrichment.Services is committed to providing an accessible environment to all disabled visitors and residents. Whilst the University has many original buildings dating back to the 19th Century, a comprehensive programme of modifications is in place throughout the campus. All newer buildings are designed to be fully compliant.If you are intending to apply for University accommodation, or if you anticipate visiting any of the accommodation sites, please contact us as soon as possible so that we can discuss your particular requirements and ensure that adjustments can be made where necessary. We would draw particular attention to our advanced visit facility, where we are happy to organise preferential access to accommodation for short trial periods. This is intended to assist in ensuring that you identify the most suitable facilities for your particular needs.If you wish to arrange an advance visit, have any questions or concerns, or require this information in an alternative format, you or your representative should feel free to contact Karen Morton, 0141 330 4067 or email K.Morton@admin.gla.ac.uk, as the designated access facilitator, who will be happy to discuss your requirements and provide advice.If you are organising an event or conference using any of the accommodation sites, you should give early consideration to access and facility requirements and Karen Morton will again be happy to discuss arrangements and review provision accordingly.This depends on the stamp put in your passport either before or on arrival in the UK. In most cases you will receive one which will allow you to work up to 20 hours per week during term time and as many hours as you wish during vacation time. If you are coming to study for less than 6 months, it is likely that you will be given a stamp stating that you cannot work.If you are seeking a short extension and you are not enrolled full-time then you should apply on an FLR(O) form. The FLR(O) should also be used if you want to stay on for graduation. The application form can be obtained from Registry, Student Recruitment and Admissions or you can download a copy from: www.ind.homeoffice.gov.uk Regular information sessions are held on how to complete these forms at different times throughout the year.For nationals of other countries, if you are coming to study in the UK for more than 12 months, you can drive on your valid foreign licence or international driving permit for a period of 12 months from the date you first arrived in the UK. If your licence is not one which is possible to exchange and you wish to continue driving after the 12 months, you must get a provisional UK licence and pass a driving test before the 12 month period runs out.The University Health Service aims to provide an efficient, cost-effective, quality service giving skilled health care to staff and students and deals in a pro-active fashion with the various occupational health issues which confront establishments involved in higher education.As a service, we are committed to giving the best possible service to our colleagues within the academic community, to organisations linked with the University and to other Universities both in the West of Scotland and elsewhere.Services available 1. General consultative service The service started life as the Student Health Service and continues to provide a general consultative service to both students and staff. This service is highly regarded by both groups and provides a useful interface with other NHS resources.The Occupational Health service has developed over the last 15 years. The goal of the Occupational Health Service is to prevent work related ill health. It provides advice to all levels and sections of the University, including committees, people with management responsibilities, individual employees, visitors, contractors and students.The UHS provides health surveillance, as required, to support the work carried out by staff, postgraduate students, undergraduate students, academic visitors and (by negotiation) certain associated units and external organisations. The UHS supports the University in complying with health and safety law and with employment law and forms part of the University's risk management process.UHS works jointly with other central services for the benefit of health, safety and welfare. The UHS liaises with local general practitioners, hospitals and other NHS services, as appropriate, for the benefit of individual staff and their departments.Reviewing risk assessment and health surveillance registration forms for laboratory and certain other workers, arranging any additional health assessment, initiating any necessary recall for health surveillance and immunisations and providing any necessary reports.The UHS provides full health surveillance including diagnostic and specialist medical review, maintenance of health records, biological monitoring, biological effect monitoring (e.g. lung function testing for people exposed to allergens), advice is provided to the departments and individuals on the review of work practices when control parameters are exceeded and a recall system is maintained.Telephone, e-mail and other informal advice on work-related health matters to department heads, departmental administrators, safety officers, human resource managers or other University staff on occupational health matters affecting groups or individuals.Unfortunately, as the University Health Service is only open weekdays and is independent of the National Health Service, we are unable to offer an emergency service or home visits. However, every effort will be made for you to be seen without an appointment if there is a doctor or nurse available. In addition, we recommend that as our service is additional to that of the NHS, you should register with a local doctor of your choice who will be responsible for your medical care whilst you are at University. This does not mean that your relationship with your home doctor is broken, you may still consult with him/her when on vacation.All student entrants to Medicine, Dentistry, Nursing and Veterinary Medicine must complete a Health Declaration form. The form can be found by clicking this connection. More information can be found in the relevant Faculty websites.A travel questionnaire to assist nursing staff ascertain the best vaccination schedule for your trip can be found by clicking this connection. Please complete and bring this form with you to your appointment.School leavers are on the roller coaster where they are continuously aware of what is required. Mature students are not. Still, in first year I managed to gain a B for Chemistry, an A for Mathematics and a C for Biology. In second year I continued with Chemistry and Biology, which was divided up into several modules. Fortunately I passed everything again, giving me the option of doing an honours degree."I was worried that I was not up to the required standard for university; I was concerned about the social/economic differences that I would encounter in other students and the 