5722018452	Whereas users previously ordered the data they needed, the self-service page affords everyone the opportunity to search not only what they are specifically looking for, but also to look for new connections and thus gain further knowledge, faster. The tables are interactive and constantly updated, while new functionalities are continuously developed."We very much want to be involved in qualifying the healthcare debate," says Hjulsager. "And when we are able to improve efficiency with a solution that makes it cheaper in the long-term while also increasing the service levels, then we feel that we are able to live up to the Danish National Board of Health's management requirements in relation to the users."SAS has developed a solution at the request of the Danish National Board of Health that has further developed and created Web site content and defined functionalities. SAS solutions run the underlying statistics each time a user activates a search criterion and a table is to be produced."We wanted a flexible and open solution with interactive figures and tables. We have achieved this with the help of a range of adapted SAS solutions. The preparation of data takes place in SAS Enterprise Guide. As this was an entirely new area we were moving into, we cut out the point-and-click functions and worked with traditional SAS programming run in Enterprise Guide, because it went faster. We are very satisfied with the solution and are curious to see who will be using it," concludes Quaade.The Danish National Board of Health has made the strategic choice of using SAS solutions for statistical analysis because they afford flexible, speedy and powerful access to the Danish National Board of Health's constantly growing volumes of data in the central registers.Denmark is among the leading countries in the world in benchmarking its hospitals' services. Using SAS Activity-Based Management, the Danish National Board of Health's system for diagnosis-related grouping (DRG) contributes toward creating a better overview and more precise hospital budgets and fees."In order to operate efficiently with charge control it is absolutely imperative to establish an overview of the hospitals' actual cost structures and to create transparency and insight right across the organizations," Hansen says.Denmark is one of the few countries where treatment costs are best benchmarked. The DRG System was employed for the first time in the year 2000 as a basis for treatment payments of inter-county free choice patients. It has subsequently been used as a tool for changing the financing of the hospitals, which has been carried out to comply with the government's wish to give more money to those hospitals that are most effective and accomplish more. The system covers both in- and outpatients.For each illness group a DRG charge is calculated as the average financial charge per patient. It indicates the price that a county can require to treat patients from other counties and is also used for the payment for additional activities in connection with activity-financed budgets. The DRG charge is comprised of a fixed, basic charge for such things as bed, care and food in the relevant type of department, and of a range of more variable costs related to the use of resources for "activities" such as X-ray, scanning, laboratories, blood-bank, operations, physiotherapy and more."The United States has worked with DRG for more than 20 years, while the development in Denmark only started a few years ago. But we are well advanced with online reporting-in and direct access to registers, cost databases and electronic guidance. All the parties have benefited from the development of the DRG system. Counties and hospitals have gained new knowledge regarding the connection between activities, resources and finance. It is absolutely crucial for local control and planning," says Hansen, who is also a member of the board of the international DRG Committee.The Danish National Board of Health's task is to support and carry out the executive political decisions. The DRG system must be flexible and able to cover all the accounts relating to treatment of patients irrespective of future structure, while the charge system must underpin the correct incentives in the hospital sector. "The politicians wish to make decisions against a background of facts and we need to create an overview of the actual cost structure in the hospital system, and in this regard SAS Activity-Based Management is a crucial tool," says Hansen.Activity-based management, which is based on activity-based costing analyses, is a management concept that focuses upon controlling and prioritising activities aimed at improving efficiency. The core of SAS Activity-Based Management is an activity-based analysis that links together direct and indirect costs hidden in the finance system with specific activities or processes. It affords - right across the organisation - the opportunity to see which parts of the costs are included in a given service, and how these costs influence the accounts.The Danish hospitals register all activities and report to the National Board of Health online each night. By the very next day the hospitals have a calculated production value returned to them. Once a month the hospitals receive an overview that shows whether they have achieved their target in relation to the government's requirements.The DRG system helps the hospitals locally to control their budgets by supplying updated, real-time information regarding relevant activities, resources and financial data. It can also calculate such things as contribution margins."Today all Danish hospitals have access to information online. Each hospital is able to compare its own outlay level for certain forms of treatment with the DRG charge, or with that of other hospitals. This form of benchmarking affords the opportunity to discover savings potentials and learn from others' best practice," says Hansen.Clear savings that have resulted from benchmarking include improvements to supplier agreements. But the treatment procedures can also be optimised through learning from other hospitals. "Benchmarking is of crucial importance," explains Hansen. "The transparency of the DRG system has opened the politicians' eyes to the fact that not all hospitals can necessarily do everything. In certain counties specialists are now brought together in the hospitals that are the most cost-effective in the respective areas. For example, obstetrics is perhaps the focus at two hospitals, while hip operations are undertaken at a third.""The requirement that the Danish National Board of Health's calculations be precise has increased sharply," continues Hansen. "If we do not contain the costs correctly, then that will exert direct influence on the hospitals' budgets. The National Board of Health is continuously maintaining a close dialogue between counties and hospitals in order to adapt data, groupings and reports to the actual conditions."The hospitals can advantageously adopt the activity-based costing method as a principle. With an increased focus on budgets, in future the hospitals will have to expect not only to have to report precisely to the National Board of Health's registers, but also to be able to explain and document all outlay in relation to the counties, and this requires an enhanced overview."It is a complicated process to gather the correct data in the right manner, and not all the hospitals submit their reports uniformly yet. But the aim is that, by the spring of 2005, all known inexpediencies will have been removed. This will give rise to an excellent factual basis for political decisions whereby we achieve comparable results," concludes Hansen.The next step includes looking to work qualitative measurements into the system. This is already in operation in the United States, where research is aimed at achieving the best quality possible for the money."With an increased focus on budgets, in the future the hospitals will have to expect not only to have to report precisely to the National Board of Health's registers, but also to be able to explain and document all outlay in relation to the counties, and this requires an enhanced overview."The Defense Manpower Data Center (DMDC) formed within the U.S. Department of Defense in the mid-1970s during a time of geopolitical upheaval and domestic uncertainty. The Vietnam War had just ended. Soldiers were coming home and re-entering civilian life in an economy that was shifting into peacetime mode. And the era of an all-volunteer military was just beginning in the United States.Such far-reaching political, social and economic transitions brought infinite questions about their impact on national security as well as on the lives of soldiers, veterans and the Pentagon's civilian employees. The Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Manpower and Reserve Affairs demanded answers, giving rise to the DMDC.The data center is responsible for collecting as much information as possible on Defense Department personnel, including active duty, reservists, military retirees, and their dependents, as well as DOD civilian employees and contractors. The data center also collects information on active duty accessions and separation data. All this data is used to provide management information services on personnel issues to the defense community.Data management - Building Web sites where users query through a point-and-click process; building, saving and running queries without needing to be familiar with Structured Query Language (SQL) or SAS software syntax. SAS is used to populate the data bases and tables used.Report presentation - Producing reports that range from a simple listing of a data set to customized reports of complex relationships. Many reports require only a few SAS statements and no programming at all."At any time, our division of 50 people will have 250 different projects to which we're trying to respond