5722018439	With regards to Saudi Arabia, the ruling system is monarchial which contradicts Islam. Article 5(a) of the constitution states, "The system of government in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is that of a monarchy."The economic solutions also contradict Islam on a number of different levels. With respect to oil we find that it is not public property but is largely privately owned, which is the case in Saudi Arabia - Aramco.We also find that economic solutions are dervied from free market thinking, which is evident in the privatisation process in Iran. The problem here is with the basis of thinking. Islam specifies what is public, private and state ownership. Iran is going from one extreme to another, from nationalisation to privatisation.I ask this because I consider respectful peer-based relationships and constructive coexistence across ethnic, religious, class, etc. lines to be *the* toughest challenge to democracy; people of like mind can and do establish some very smoothly operating communities on small (sub-national) scales, but there seems to be a size limit and it appears to be closely related to considerations of how large a group one can find where most of the people are an ideological match.We live *today* under a global economic regime which continually redistributes wealth...UPWARD.  This regime is very much based upon massive and routine violence, both through state and non-state actors.Muslims seem to follow the same pattern as adherents of other faiths when it comes to politicoeconomic systems, i.e. you have a handful of people who stick up for economic justice within any faith, but the majority take the windvane approach and just go along with whatever regime is dominant.In Islam we can see things like Ramadan, which involve clear appeals to consider the plight of the poor.  In Christianity we have things like the "eye of the needle" passage and a host of callings to transcend the temporal world of earthly possessions in favor of spiritual wealth.  In Judaism there is the notion of healing the world...and so on for every major faith community I can think of.However, the overwhelming majority of adherents to each of these faiths seems perfectly content to settle for piecemeal gestures towards economic justice while tolerating (if not openly celebrating and participating in) inherently exploitative and violent economic regimes.The minority who stick up for the oppressed are what makes it possible for me to see some worth in religion...while the majority who don't are what inspires me to maintain a general suspicion of the integrity of their faith.I'm jumping in late because I've been out of town. I have a review copy of New Civ. It's a good looking magazine and I admire its goal of fostering dialogue. It makes some interesting points and, I think, dubious ones. Generally I'm wondering if, given its attempt to be steadfastly grounded in Islam, it can have much appeal beyond the Islamic community. I also wonder how representative of modern Islamic thought it is. Is it really offering me a window into the thinking of a significant portion of the non-western intellectual world?So, before we take a step further in the argument we're encountering considerable problems -- the existence of God et al. But I'm willing to go along with the premise just to see how the argument turns out."Rather Islam views people in their capacity as human beings and citizens of the Islamic State. So no differentiation is made between Muslims and non-Muslims, both are viewed in their capacity as human beings and are treated as such by the Islamic rules."This is, I suppose, an admirable attempt to embrace diversity but it's chock full of problems when you think it through. Imagine the ideal Islamic State exists. Could non-muslims (and by non-muslims I mean those who reject Allah, the Quran as a miracle, Mohammed as the prophet and the legitimacy of Islamic Law) really have a significant place in the Caliphate? Wouldn't the system be intrinsically biased toward Islamic beliefs, making it extremely difficult for someone who did not accept them to assume a position of authority?As my limited understanding of Islam, I see an "inner self" way, an intuitive divine truth of the individual very similar to the native American Iroquois where The Creator speak to individual hearts, prayerful, meditative hearts of average people. From reading these postings I feel conformation for this view. It's a good place to start building bridges of understanding... and healthy economies.I have always been impressed at how Islam has specific controls on rates of return on loans and not requiring payments out when there are no profits made. I wish I could put my humble checking account into a bank with this kind of ethic.I tend to take these things as a given because economic thinking and solutions are derived from a capitalist context. That is to say we find that there are different interpretations and models of capitalism but nonetheless these models in their generality are the same but differ in the specifics. The economies of Europe and America differ on many issues especially areas of social justice where socialism has a much stronger influence upon European economics than it does in America."Our third great task is to spread democracy and freedom throughout the world. I spoke earlier of the grave setbacks to democracy in the first half of the 20th century. The second half of the century saw an advance of democracy that was far more dramatic. In the last quarter of that century, the number of democracies in the world tripled. And in the last six months of this new century alone, we have witnessed the peaceful, democratic transfer of power in Malaysia, a majority Muslim nation, and in Indonesia, the country with the world's largest Muslim population. We have seen men and women wait in line for hours to vote in Afghanistan's first ever free and fair presidential election.""We also must realize that America and all free nations are facing a generational struggle against a new and deadly ideology of hatred that we cannot ignore. We need to do much more to confront hateful propaganda, dispel dangerous myths, and get out the truth. We will increase our exchanges with the rest of the world. And Americans should make a serious effort to understand other cultures and learn foreign languages. Our interaction with the rest of the world must be a conversation, not a monologue. And America must remain open to visitors and workers and students from around the world, without compromising our security standards. If our public diplomacy efforts are to succeed, we cannot close ourselves off from the world. And if I am confirmed, public diplomacy will be a top priority for me and for the professionals I lead."IMHO  "Western" and "Islamic" civilizations are more similar than not, and may there be mercy on any other civilizations that lay in their path. Both are coated with no shortage of destructive tendencies while sharing the immediate painful mutual need for an equitable 'social index'.Farooq, I think your response to my puzzlement is a fairly accurate characterization of the US position.  The problem to which I was alluding, though, is that I think the US position has generally been misguided.  I say so mainly because a survey of what routinely takes place in developing nations ought to be seen as convincing evidence that trying to impose democracy on a people who are living in utter abject poverty is ALSO a recipe for disaster, as the sheer number of coups in sub-Saharan Africa in the past, say, 50 years, clearly demonstrates.It takes time and patience to develop democracy to the point where the masses can benefit from it.  And time and patience are difficult to come by among people who are hungry.  Democracy requires stability in order to take root, and there can be no stability among a population that is suffering from an array of ills that plague the underdeveloped world, such as lack of food, lack of access to clean water, disease, etc.  That's the reason why many development economists believe that development must occur first before democracy.  Hungry people don't care about capitalism versus socialism.  They just want to eat.  Once they and their children are fed, clothed, sheltered, and healthy, they can then begin to think about what type governance they believe will be best for them in the long run.It is absurd that a nation that isn't a democracy itself could, let alone would, attempt to work for democracy elsewhere.  There are plenty of individuals and groups who strive for substantive democracy, but (suprise!) they don't work from within a state apparatus.It is even more absurd that democracy, which by its most fundamental definition is based upon true reflection of the political will of the people, could ever be imposed from without (though once again, that's clearly NOT what is even being attempted).  Even in those circumstances where (arguably) most people in a particular society truly do want substantive democracy, it must be spearheaded and achieved by the people themselves.  Potential outside allies can help *when invited*, but not otherwise.Making a fetish of the *superficial procedural* sense of "democracy," in which the mere presence or absence of formal voting mechanisms is the litmus test (regardless of whether or not such voting actually DOES anything substantive to/for the de facto policies of a regime) is an insulting trivialization of democracy.  Substantive democracy does require some kind of mechanism for people to express their political will, but expression without effect is only marginally less coercive and repressive a situation than barring political expression outright.Since the 1860's when U.S. Army suppliers took over the government and created a deficit spending/tax everyone, military industrial complex, Big Business Interests have used "democratic freedom" rhetoric to pull the wool over the world's as well as the Am