5722018444	The CHA sets out a consultation process that must be undertaken with the province or territory before discretionary penalties can be levied. To date, the discretionary penalty provisions of the Act have not been applied.In addition to the medically necessary insured hospital and physician services covered by the CHA, provinces and territories also provide a range of programs and services outside the scope of the Act. These are provided at provincial and territorial discretion, on their own terms and conditions, and vary from one province or territory to another. Additional services that may be provided include pharmacare, ambulance services and optometric services.The additional services provided by provinces and territories may be targeted to specific population groups (e.g., children, seniors or social assistance recipients), and may be partially or fully covered by provincial and territorial health insurance plans.A number of services provided by hospitals and physicians are not considered medically necessary and thus, are not insured under provincial and territorial health insurance legislation. Uninsured hospital services for which patients may be charged include preferred hospital accommodation unless prescribed by a physician, private duty nursing services, and the provision of telephones and televisions. Uninsured physician services for which patients may be charged include telephone advice, the provision of medical certificates required for work, school, insurance purposes and fitness clubs, testimony in court and cosmetic services.The CHA definition of "insured person" excludes members of the Canadian Forces, persons appointed to a position of rank within the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, persons serving a prison term in a federal penitentiary, and persons who have not completed a minimum period of residence in a province or territory (a period that must not exceed three months). In addition, the definition of "insured health services" excludes services to persons provided under any other Act of Parliament (e.g., foreign refugees) or under the workers' compensation legislation of a province or territory.There are two key policy statements that clarify the federal position on the CHA . These statements have been made in the form of ministerial letters from former federal Ministers responsible for health, to their provincial and territorial counterparts.In June 1985, approximately one year following the passage of the CHA in Parliament, Jake Epp, the federal minister responsible for Health at the time, wrote to his provincial and territorial counterparts to set out and confirm the federal position on the interpretation and implementation of the CHA.Minister Epp's letter followed several months of consultation with his provincial and territorial counterparts. The letter sets forth statements on the federal policy intent, which clarify the criteria, conditions and regulatory provisions of the CHA. These clarifications have been used by the federal government in assessing and interpreting compliance with the Act. The Epp letter continues to be an important reference for interpreting the Act.Between February 1994 and December 1994, a series of seven federal-provincial-territorial meetings dealing wholly or in part with private clinics took place. At issue was the growth of private clinics providing medically necessary services funded partially by the public system and partially by patients and its impact on Canada's universal, publicly funded health care system.At the Federal-Provincial-Territorial Health Ministers Meeting of September 1994 in Halifax, all ministers of health present, except for Alberta's health minister, agreed to "take whatever steps are required to regulate the development of private clinics in Canada."On January 6, 1995, Diane Marleau, the federal minister responsible for Health, wrote to all provincial and territorial ministers of health, to announce the new Federal Policy on Private Clinics. The Minister's letter provided the federal interpretation of the CHA as it relates to the issue of facility fees charged directly to patients receiving medically necessary services at private clinics. The letter stated that the definition of "hospital" contained in the CHA, includes any public facility that provides acute, rehabilitative or chronic care. Thus, when a provincial or territorial health insurance plan pays the physician fee for a medically necessary service delivered at a private clinic, it must also pay the facility fee or face a deduction from federal transfer payments.In April 2002, the then-federal Health Minister A. Anne McLellan outlined in a letter to her provincial and territorial counterparts a Canada Health Act Dispute Avoidance and Resolution process, which was agreed to by provinces and territories, except Quebec. The process meets federal, provincial and territorial interests of avoiding disputes related to the interpretation of CHA principles, and when this is not possible, resolving disputes in a fair, transparent and timely manner.The process includes the dispute avoidance activities of government-to-government information exchange; discussions and clarification of issues, as they arise; active participation of governments in ad hoc federal-provincial-territorial committees on Canada Health Act issues; and Canada Health Act advance assessments, upon request.Where dispute avoidance activities are unsuccessful, dispute resolution activities may be initiated, beginning with government-to-government fact-finding and negotiations. If these are unsuccessful, either Minister of Health involved may refer the issues to a third-party panel to undertake fact-finding and provide advice and recommendations.The federal Minister of Health has the final authority to interpret and enforce the CHA. In deciding whether to invoke the non-compliance provisions of the Act, the Minister will take the panel's report into consideration.In administering the Canada Health Act (CHA), the federal Minister of Health is assisted by Health Canada policy, communications and information officers located in Ottawa and in the six regional offices of the Department, and by lawyers with the Department of Justice.Health Canada takes its responsibilities under the CHA seriously, working with the provinces and territories to ensure that the principles of the CHA are respected. Our preference is always to work with provinces and territories to resolve issues through consultation, collaboration and cooperation.The within-Canada portability provisions of the CHA are implemented through a series of bilateral reciprocal billing agreements between provinces and territories for hospital and physician services. This generally means that a patient's health card will be accepted, in lieu of payment, when the patient receives hospital or physician services in another province or territory. The province or territory providing the service will then directly bill the patient's home province. All provinces and territories participate in reciprocal hospital agreements and all, with the exception of Quebec, participate in reciprocal medical agreements. The intent of these agreements is to ensure that Canadian residents do not face point-of-service charges for medically required hospital and physician services when they travel in Canada. However, these agreements are interprovincial/territorial and signing them is not a requirement of the CHA.Health Canada's approach to resolving possible CHA compliance issues emphasizes transparency, consultation and dialogue with provincial and territorial health ministry officials. In most instances, issues are successfully resolved through consultation and discussion based on a thorough examination of the facts. Deductions have only been applied when all options to resolve the issue have been exhausted. To date, most disputes and issues related to administering and interpreting the CHA have been addressed and resolved without resorting to deductions.Health Canada officials routinely liaise with provincial and territorial health ministry representatives and health insurance plan administrators to help resolve common problems experienced by Canadians related to eligibility for health insurance coverage and portability of health services within and outside Canada.The Canada Health Act Division and regional office staff monitor the operations of provincial and territorial health care insurance plans in order to provide advice to the Minister on possible non-compliance with the CHA. Sources for this information include: provincial and territorial government officials and publications; media reports; and correspondence received from the public and other non-government organizations. Staff in the Compliance and Interpretation Unit, Canada Health Act Division, assess issues of concern and complaints on a case-by-case basis. The assessment process involves compiling all facts and information related to the issue and taking appropriate action. Verifying the facts with provincial and territorial health officials may reveal issues that are not directly related to the CHA, while others may pertain to the CHA but are a result of misunderstanding or miscommunication, and are resolved quickly with provincial assistance. In instances where a CHA issue has been identified and remains after initial enquiries, Division officials then ask the jurisdiction in question to investigate the matter and report back. Division staff, then discuss the issue and its possible resolution with provincial officials. Only if the issue is not resolved to the satisfaction of the Division after following the aforementioned steps, is it brought to the attention of the federal Minister of Health.No new CHA compliance issues arose during 2004-2005. With respect to compliance issues noted in previous years, other than specific developments noted below, bilateral communications on these issues are ongoing.This informati