5722018471	Prerequisites: Comfort with basic discrete math and probability. Recommended: COMS W3261 or COMS W4231.An introduction to modern cryptography, focusing on the complexity-theoretic foundations of secure computation and communication in adversarial environments; a rigorous approach, based on precise definitions and provably secure protocols. Topics include private and public key encryption schemes, digital signatures, authentication, pseudorandom generators and functions, one-way functions, trapdoor functions, number theory and computational hardness, identification and zero knowledge protocols.Prerequisites: Knowledge of linear algebra.  Prior knowledge of quantum mechanics is not required although helpful.Introduction to quantum computing. Shor's factoring algorithm, Grover's database search algorithm, the quantum summation algorithm. Relationship between classical and quantum computing. Potential power of quantum computers.Theory and practice of regression analysis. Simple and multiple regression including testing, estimation and confidence procedures, modeling, regression diagnostics and plots, polynomial regression, fixed effects ANOV and ANCOVA models, non-linear regression, multiple comparisons, co-linearity and confounding, model selection. Geometic approach to the theory and use of the computer to analyze data emphasized.This course is an introduction to the design of integrated circuits in leading-edge CMOS technology.  Full-custom design techniques as applied to digital integrated circuits are the emphasis.  The course culminates in a mini-design project, a simple 8-bit microcontroller core, implemented in a TSMC 0.25um process. Extensive use of the CAD tools in Columbia's environment will be required.Prerequisites: COMS W3139 and W3824.Hands-on introduction to solving open-ended computational problems. Emphasis on creativity, cooperation, and collaboration. Projects spanning a variety of areas within computer science, typically requiring the development of computer programs. Generalization of solutions to broader problems, and specialization of complex problems to make them manageable. Team-oriented projects, student presentations, and in-class participation required.Prerequisites: COMS W3139.Provides a broad understanding of the basic techniques for building intelligent computer systems. Topics include state-space problem representations, problem reduction and and-or graphs, game playing and heuristic search, predicate calculus, and resolution theorem proving, AI systems and languages for knowledge representation, machine learning and concept formation and other topics such as natural language processing may be included as time permits. Examples of AI applications where these techniques are used will be discussed.Modeling, analysis, and computation of derivative securities. Applications of stochastic calculus and stochastic differential equations. Numerical techniques: finite-difference, binomial method, and Monte Carlo.Prerequisites: COMS W4701.Focuses on current methods of implementing AI expert systems. Topics include the structure of problem-solving engines and knowledge bases for expert performance; problem taxonomies; methods to automate the acquisition of human experiential knowledge, methods to automate the explanation of problem-solving behavior; examples of existing expert systems and their application areas.Prerequisites: The fundamentals of calculus, linear algebra, and C programming. Students without any of these prerequisites are advised to contact the instructor prior to taking the course.Introductory course in computer vision. Topics include image formation and optics, image sensing, binary images, image processing and filtering, edge extraction and boundary detection, region growing and segmentation, pattern classification methods, brightness and reflectance, shape from shading and photometric stereo, texture, binocular stereo, optical flow and motion, 2-D and 3-D object representation, object recognition, vision systems and applications.Prerequisites: COMS W3137 or W3139.Introduction to robotics from a computer science perspective.  Topics include coordinate frames and kinematics, computer architectures for robotics, integration and use of sensors, world modeling systems, design and use of robotic programming languages, and applications of artificial intelligence for planning, assembly, and manipulation.Prerequisites: COMS W3137 or W3139.Visual input as data and for control of computer systems. Survey and analysis of architecture, algorithms, and underlying assumptions of commercial and research systems that recognize and interpret human gestures, analyze imagery such as fingerprint or iris patterns, generate natural language descriptions of medical or map imagery. Explores foundations in human psychophysics, cognitive science, and artificial intelligence.Prerequisites: Introductory probability and statistics and basic programming skills.Provides comprehensive introduction to computational techniques for  analyzing genomic data including DNA, RNA and protein structures; microarrays; transcription and regulation; regulatory, metabolic and protein interaction networks.  The course covers sequence analysis algorithms, dynamic programming, hidden Markov models,  phylogenetic analysis, Bayesian network techniques, neural networks, clustering algorithms, support vector machines, Boolean models of regulatory networks, flux based analysis of metabolic networks and scale-free network models. The course provides self-contained introduction to relevant biological mechanisms and methods.Prerequisites: Any introductory course in linear algebra and any introductory course in statistics are both required. Knowledge of W4701 Artificial Intelligence is highly recommended.Topics from generative and discriminative machine learning including least squares methods, support vector machines, kernel methods, neural networks, Gaussian distributions, linear classification, linear regression, maximum likelihood, exponential family distributions, Bayesian networks, Bayesian inference, mixture models, the EM algorithm, graphical models and hidden Markov models. Algorithms implemented in Matlab.Prerequisite: the instructor's permission.  Introduction to mathematical logic. Fundamental notions of set theory and recursion theory; detailed discussion of propositional and predicate logic: completeness, (un-)decidability, and theorem-proving.Prerequisite: COMS W4801 or the equivalent.  Axiomatic set theory: ordinals, cardinals, the axiom of choice, models of set theory. Definability; hierarchies of sets of integers. Connections between set theory and theory of computability.This course will introduce the basic concepts and techniques for processing signals on a computer. By the end of the course, you be familiar with the most important methods of DSP, including digital filter design and transform-domain processing. The course emphasizes intuitive understanding and practical implementations of the theoretical concepts: Our main text (Mitra) includes extensive examples using the Matlab environment. Matlab will also be used within the problem sets (see below).Prerequisites: CSEE W4823.Embedded system design and implementation combining hardware and software. I/O, interfacing, and peripherals. Weekly laboratory sessions and term project on design of a microprocessor-based embedded system including at least one custom peripheral. Knowledge of C programming and digital logic required. Lab required.Prerequisites: Approval by a faculty member who agrees to supervise the work.A second-level independent project involving laboratory work, computer programming, analytical investigation, or engineering design.  May be repeated for credit, but not for a total of more than 3 points of degree credit.  Consult the department for section assignment.Prerequisites: The instructor's permission.Special topics arranged as the need and availability arises. Topics are usually offered on a one-time basis. Since the content of this course changes each time it is offered, it may be repeated for credit. Consult the department for section assignment.Prerequisites: COMS W4111Concentration on some database paradigm, such as deductive, heterogeneous, or object-oriented, and/or some database issue, such as data modeling, distribution, query processing, semantics, or transaction management. A substantial project is typically required. May be repeated for credit with instructor's permission.Prerequisites: COMS W4160 or instructor's permission.An advanced graduate course, involving study of an advanced research topic in Computer Graphics.  Content varies between offerings, and  the course may be repeated for credit.  Recent offerings have included appearance models in graphics, and high quality real-time rendering.Prerequisites: CS W4170 or instructor's permission.Design methodology for special-purpose user interfaces. Emphasis on how psychology and perception inform good design. Interviewing and task modeling, participatory design, and low-fidelity prototyping. Applications of brain research, graphic design and art to develop custom user interface components, screen layouts, and interaction techniques for application-specific systems.Prerequisites: COMS W4170 or permission of the instructorIntroduction to research on user interfaces for mobile and wearable computing through lectures, invited talks, student-led discussions of important papers, and programming projects. Designing and authoring for mobility and wearability. Ubiquitous/pervasive computing.   Collaboration with other users. Display, interaction, and communication technologies. Sensors for tracking position, orientation, motion, environmental context, and personal context. Applications and social consequences.In-depth survey of protocols and algorithms needed to transport multimedia information across the Internet, including audio and video encoding, multicast, quality-of-servic