5722018462	"From 'soccer moms' to 'security moms' and 'baby boomers' to the women of Gen X, it is clear that the candidates are goin' a courtin'," said Feldt. "We are in a much different world. It is time for women to make their voices heard, their opinions felt, and their votes count."Single women have as large a share of the American electorate as African-American, Latino, and Jewish voters combined. According to some polls, single women have the potential to decide the 2004 election.Finally, said Feldt, "Women have the potential to change the political landscape in this country, and not just at the presidential level. Women are poised to effect change in a number of House and Senate races as well. Given the large percentage of women running for federal, state and local offices, this could be a landmark year for women across America.""Women on their own have the power to shape our country's future," said PPFA President Gloria Feldt. "It is imperative that every woman in America exercise her civic right and vote on November 2. We were thrilled to work with Helen Hunt and Julie Bergman Sender in communicating this crucial message, and we look forward to seeing its motivating effects.""I am pleased that the court has recognized that allowing only one point of view to be expressed on a license plate is discriminatory," said Jeff Teague, President and CEO of Planned Parenthood of Middle and East Tennessee. "The court has shown that, when the State Legislature creates a public forum, i.e. a license plate, that pro-choice Tennesseans must have equal access to that forum and the right to express their opinion on a license plate as well."In the ruling, the court found that, "The government may not target particular views taken by speakers on a subject in an effort to discourage one viewpoint and advance another." Further, it stated that, "In this case, the State of Tennessee has allowed the 'Choose Life' viewpoint to the exclusion of 'Pro-Choice' and other views on abortion."On June 1, 2004, in Planned Parenthood Federation of America v. Ashcroft, a federal court in northern California struck down the federal abortion ban. In doing so, the federal court ruled that Attorney General Ashcroft cannot enforce the federal abortion ban against any Planned Parenthood affiliate, or its "officers, agents, servants, employees, [or] contractors," whether the abortion is performed in a facility owned or operated by Planned Parenthood or elsewhere.All three cases included the overwhelming testimony of highly respected ob/gyns from around the country who testified that this law would ban abortions as early as 12 to 15 weeks in pregnancy, abortions they say are safe and among the best for women's health. The ban would further fail to safeguard women because it does not contain an exception to protect their health. The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) and many other major medical organizations join PPFA in opposing the ban.In an attempted sweeping invasion of medical privacy earlier this year, Attorney General John Ashcroft tried unsuccessfully to obtain thousands of confidential medical records of women who obtained abortions. Among the records subpoenaed were those from Planned Parenthood health centers nationwide, but PPFA successfully blocked the effort. Ashcroft's calculated fishing expedition was in response to the effort to block the federal abortion ban.The agreement that came out of the meeting, known as the Cairo consensus, outlined a roadmap to improve women's health through increased access to reproductive health, and to make communities healthier by educating girls and empowering women.In the decade since 179 nations agreed to the Cairo consensus, access to family planning has increased, and there are more girls in school longer and more women in government. However, meeting participants note that the number of women who die in childbirth has hardly shifted at all, and that funding is far behind what was promised a decade ago.The United States in particular has been seen as an obstacle toward implementing Cairo. Stickney noted that the current U.S. administration had imposed severe funding and policy restrictions on international assistance for reproductive health. "It's really frustrating to see the United States blocking programs that would do so much for women and their families.""The United States has stood alone in the world in its opposition to Cairo," Stickney said. "So it's pretty ironic that when experts from all over the world are here in London, there is a convention in New York discussing the future leadership of the United States. The U.S. president has a significant impact on whether or not we meet the Cairo goals."The New York case included the overwhelming testimony of highly respected ob/gyns from around the country who testified that this law would ban abortions as early as 12 to 15 weeks in pregnancy, abortions they say are safe and among the best for women's health. The ban would further fail to safeguard women because it does not contain an exception to protect their health. The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) and many other major medical organizations join PPFA in opposing the ban."The abortion ban is a transparent act of hostility toward women's health, the right to medical privacy and the Supreme Court of the United States," PPFA President Gloria Feldt said. "The court was right to strike down this dangerous law and Attorney General Ashcroft is wrong to squander Americans' hard-earned tax dollars to fund his anti-choice crusade. Planned Parenthood is fully prepared to go back to court to ensure that this dangerous abortion ban never harms American women."Judge Hamilton's ruling prohibits Attorney General Ashcroft and his successors from enforcing the law against doctors who provide abortion services for Planned Parenthood, whether they are working at Planned Parenthood or elsewhere, as well as doctors to whom Planned Parenthood makes referrals.The ad campaign released today calls on the U.S. Senate to stand firm and continue to block the confirmation of nominees who pose a very real threat to our fundamental rights and freedoms. Many of these extremist nominees have, with their own words, exposed their true anti-choice and misogynistic views, and they all admit to opposing laws that protect the rights of women. According to constitutional scholars and historians, President Bush has assembled the most ideologically driven group of judges ever nominated to the federal bench."Many of this administration's top appointees have worked throughout their careers to erode women's rights and to eradicate reproductive rights entirely," added Feldt. "Planned Parenthood will not sit on the sidelines while the administration tries to ram through extremist judicial nominees who are far out of the mainstream on core issues affecting women and human rights. Despite claims to the contrary, this Senate has confirmed 98 percent of the current administration's judicial nominees. We will continue to oppose the confirmations of those nominees who pose a danger to us all.""This decision is clearly based on politics, not on public health," said Gloria Feldt, president of Planned Parenthood Federation of America (PPFA). "Make no mistake: this administration will always choose anti-family planning extremism over women's health programs here and around the world."The decision comes as the United States was under fire this week at the International AIDS Conference in Bangkok, Thailand. Public health experts and AIDS activists criticized the United States for promoting abstinence as the best method of preventing AIDS, when a comprehensive approach has been shown to be more effective."Everyone needs information about how to protect themselves from unintended pregnancy and HIV/AIDS," said Feldt. "But by cutting off funding for UNPFA, emphasizing 'ignorance-only' prevention programs, and placing severe restrictions on family planning funding, this administration keeps women from getting the information and services they need to make healthy choices."Planned Parenthood opposes any attempt to use a constitutional amendment to circumvent or weaken the Supreme Court decisions that guarantee fundamental privacy rights and equal protection under the law. Planned Parenthood thus condemns the Bush administration's attacks on the privacy and civil rights of same-sex couples through the Federal Marriage Amendment."Trying to change the Constitution to deny people their basic human and civil rights is wrong," stated Feldt. "We trust individuals to make responsible choices, we support loving families in all of their relationship forms, and we will continue to work to ensure that all families and their rights are strong and secure.""Holmes' record and rhetoric make him unfit for the federal bench," said Gloria Feldt, president of PPFA. "Holmes has worked throughout his career to erode women's rights, and to eradicate reproductive rights entirely."Holmes served as president of the Arkansas Right to Life, an organization devoted virtually exclusively to outlawing abortion. He also held the position of secretary of the Unborn Child Amendment Committee, which advanced a constitutional amendment to the Arkansas Constitution that would have prohibited the use of public funds for abortion unless the woman's life was in danger."Holmes' proper place is nowhere near the authority of a federal bench," Feldt said. "His infamous comment that rape exceptions to abortion bans are unnecessary because conception from rape happens 'as often as snow falls in Miami' demonstrates both his blatant disregard for the facts and his appalling lack of compassion for the 300,000 American women who are raped each year and the 25,000 of those women who end up pregnant as a result.""Dr. Hager's ideological agenda compromises the scientific integrity of the FDA," PPFA National Medical Committee Chairman and University of W