5722018469	Predefined drop-ins are useful for often recurring content, like standardized company headers, footers, or logos. The ability to "draw" the actual content no earlier than the moment just before sending makes drop-ins also very useful for messages that are created and authorized before their content is even completely defined (for example to merge in the most current stock quotes or weather reports).The user now has the ability to choose the exact mail charset that will be used for the message content during sending. Additionally, the administrator may choose a default charset and may disallow the user to change the default charset.Recipient is not using AOL, has mail client without HTML capability (uncommon) - Outcome uncertain, depends on the mail client, most probably the raw mail text is displayed, no rendering of HTML or rich text tags, no distinction between the multiparts but both parts are displayed.Once AOL rich text support is enabled, the type of the alternative text may be toggled between plain text and AOL rich text on the alternative text input tab. Select any undelivered job from the "Resume Jobs" list -> Define Message -> Alternative Text tab (to reach this tab, switch to "HTML" body type and check "Alternative Text", if necessary)."Determine Recipients Based on Reaction to the Job". The user may select from any previously delivered job with a recipients type "Upload a Recipients Text File","Select Recipients From a Database", or the new type itself, which also has personal tracking switched on (and profiles must be stored locally, as is the default).After selecting a job as a source, the user may then choose to "Include only recipients that performed at least one of the actions below" or to "Exclude all recipients that performed at least one of the actions below", while specifying which of the actions (opening the mail, clicking on a link, or links) will be part of the condition.After that, the recipients will be defined by looking at the original recipients from the previous job, and checking the tracking data for that job, to see which of them conforms with the given condition. Only those that match the condition are then used as recipients for the new job.For these two recipients types, the additional merge columns are displayed in the list of available merge fields (that can be opened from the content definition page by clicking the "Show Merge Fields" link). The user sees that these fields can be included in the content and on the test delivery page (as additional columns). The user can then supply values for these fields for the test recipients in order to test if these fields are merged correctly.The events generated by a delivery test e-mail job are immediately transferred from Maestro Tracker to the Maestro User Interface when a test quick report for that job is executed. This creates an accurate "up-to-the-minute" reflection of triggered events for test reports.Tracker would only be transferred to the Maestro User Interface once per transfer interval. This would apply even to events generated by test delivery messages, so that the user had to wait until the end of the transfer interval before seeing the test events in the test quick report. This could lead the user to believe that no events occured and the tracking did not work, when instead the events were simply not yet transferred from Maestro Tracker to the Maestro User Interface.It is now possible to define links for tracking that are defined in an image map on a HTML page. On the tracking definition page, simply click on the link (that is on the corresponding area of the image) to select the link, then define tracking as usual. Note that tracked image map links will not be marked with a yellow highlight (due to technical reasons).It is now possible to define links for tracking that use the "https://" protocol (secure sockets layer), in addition to links with the standard "http://" protocol. As with all links, in plain text the links need to be enclosed in quotation marks < " >.It is now possible to access information about bounces for jobs where "automatic" bounce handling was chosen in "Define Sender". On the "Summary" page of any such delivered job, the current number of bounced messages is displayed (including a link to update this number). A link is also available to download a text file containing the list of bounced addresses.During report definition, the number of bounced messages can be incorporated into reports in the form of a new data source or to display numbers as a percentage of "number of unbounced messages sent" (see New Display Type "Percentages").Data sources of the type "Tracking Events" are the same data sources previously used - they count all open-up and/or click events the user defines, and displays them in form of a curve or bar (depending on the display type). Data sources of the type "Sent Messages and Bounce Count Statistics" are new.In the time distributions diagram, this statistical value is displayed as a dashed horizontal line over the whole width of the curve diagram. In the total events bar chart, the value is displayed as a bar.Settings (settings here define how the report shall look by default, when executed), or, on the "View Settings" page of any report (settings here change the report only temporarily - the next time the report is executed again from the report list, the default as defined on "Report Definition -> Result Settings" will be used again). Only available for reports of type "Event distribution over time" or "Sum of events".Accumulated - Each interval shows all events that occurred during the interval itself and during all previous intervals; this includes all events from the report period's start until the interval's end. With this display type, the curve will only rise, but never fall. However, while it will rise quite steeply at the beginning, as each interval adds a lot of new events to the total, it will later taper off into a horizontal line, as each interval has only a few, or even no new events to add to the total.Settings (settings here define how the report will look by default, when executed), or, on the "View Settings" page of any report (settings here change the report only temporarily - the next time the report is executed again from the report list, the default as defined on "Report Definition -> Result Settings" will be used again). Only available for reports of type "Event distribution over time".The "Recipient Details" report type allows the user to download a text-file table (CSV style), with columns that match the profiles of the recipients (for example NAME, EMAIL, CITY, and so on.). Then, for each recipient that generated at least one of the events counted by the data sources of the report, one row entry is made into the table, where the fields of the row are filled out with the profile values of that recipient. Each recipient row is included only once.An additional "COUNT" column may be added, that records the number of events each recipient generated. With this recipients type, it is possible to download a list of all recipients that have responded in some way, optionally including a count of how often each recipient has responded, where each recipient is represented by its profile.Grouping is implicitly defined by selecting only a subset of the available columns from the profile. Normally, each recipient is included only as a single row, with all its profile values and a count column that contains the number of events generated by that recipient. In reality, this could actually be several different recipients that happen to have the same profile. This is improbable, however, since different recipients most likely also have different profiles. But, if some of the columns are left out, the remaining columns may no longer contain sufficient data to make each profile unique for each recipient. In that case, several recipients will match to the same "condensed" profile, meaning that they will both be counted in the same row.Previously it was only possible to download a table that would tell the user exactly how many times each single recipient (or "profile owner") had generated the events. Now it is possible to download a similar table, but of more "demographic" interest, for example by grouping over "CITY" and "GENDER" you would see how many males and females of each city have generated the events, and so forth.The administrator is now able to move a delivered job from LISTSERV Maestro into a special archive. All data of such an archived job is removed from all components of LISTSERV Maestro, freeing up disk and database space. The data is saved in a special ZIP-archive file (one for each archived job) that is in turn saved in a special archive folder on the server. The administrator may then move this archive file to a suitable location (for example an external backup medium).Maestro to be viewed. However, they are imported in a "frozen" state, meaning that no changes are possible anymore, and no events are counted for that job anymore (even if some late-coming events should still reach Maestro Tracker).The administrator is now able to enable or disable specific recipient types, allowing or disallowing users to employ certain recipients types for e-mail jobs. Types can be enabled, disabled, or hidden. Disabled and hidden types are both unusable, but disabled types are still displayed in a "grayed out" state, while hidden types are not visible at all.The administrator is now able to define external processes that are executed after a backup finishes. This can, for example, be used to automatically move the backup folders to a tape, or to notify the administrator the backup is complete, and so on. Two different external processes can be defined, one to be executed after a successful backup and one after a backup failure.Enable / Disable Outbox - While the outbox is disabled, no new sending can start. All ongoing sendings will continue and finish, bu