5722018496	"It is an area with many `relics' from before The War,"  she spoke, her midnight dark eyes meeting mine.  Tasha was an attrac- tive  woman, intelligent, a surviving member of a race  that  was almost  extinct here in North America.  Luckily for us  Carl  had brought her with him on this voyage, perhaps feeling that her in- timate knowledge of the area we were going to might be of help in our perhaps hopeless attempt to wipe out the pirates that infest- ed these islands and coves hundreds of miles north of Dularn.   I supposed  too that there were the usual reasons for having  one's wife aboard.  Many naval captains of this era do such things  now if there are no children involved that require a parent's care...Tasha was Carl's second wife, the first having died in the bitter warfare there between California and Dularn back in 2565.   There had been a son, now old enough to take care of himself.  I didn't think he cared too much for Darlanis, or "what" she represented."I have a question for you, Admiral," Tasha said to me, Dar- lanis having just left for the Sarnian Queen, the African woman's eyes dark pools that glowed up into mine.  She was quite "differ- ent" from the Blacks of the 20th Century, although I suppose that was  a matter of "culture", not "race" as such.  In any case  she considered  herself a "Dularnian" as much as I did.   Her  birth- place  had been in Trelandar, she had been a friend of Sanda  Ta- len, and after Trelandar had been conquored by Darlanis Tasha had found it "wise" to leave the country, having ended up in Dularn.War when the surviving rural population took matters in their own hands.   In  any case it appears now that Black  women  were  the first  "slave  girls", with white women soon afterwards  in  turn suffering the exact same fate in the almost constant struggle for survival that was "life" on an radioactive and freezing planet."What  do we have?" I asked, climbing up the  metal  ladder, captain Sandra Steven now peering through a telescope at the dis- tant mast heads of the North Star there on the horizon.  The mid- shipman  beside her, the smoke rising up from our  triple  stacks amidships,  the other ships following in a line there behind  us.The North Star was acting as a scout, being quite a bit  "faster" than  the  square rigged Imperial steam frigates  in  sailing  to windward.   A cool sea breeze blowing off the Pacific as I  stood there with them now on the top of the forward quickfirer turret.I could see the two ships as the Diana came chugging up, the three  Imperial steam frigates now holding their  position  close by,  while the Northlight kept its station on us astern.   I  did not  "envy" the captain or crew of the captured  raiding  vessel, especially as Darlanis is not too "patient" a woman and I expect- ed that she wouldn't be too "gentle" with her captive either now."If  we destroy these pirate bases and their ships,  then  I think your Queen will grant me the `assistance' I desire," Darla- nis answered, her azure eyes holding mine.  I thought of the  in- nocents that would be killed, the women and children as our ships fired broadsides of javelins and fire bombs into defenseless vil- lages.  I remembered another war, another time now mostly "myth"."I think we could `hire' these people to fight for `us',"  I said, keeping my voice level, ignoring the Empress' own  "insult" which  really didn't mean all that "much" to me, not as it  might to someone actually "from" this time, who would see it different.And  Dularn could use "allies" here, especially as Queen  Valeris was  starting to "worry" us now with her own "activities",  there having been a minor clash between her forces and the Wyomings.  I was  well  aware of the "dangers" of "feminism",  especially  the "sort" that Queen Valeris represented, in an "era" like this one.Sandra nodding as I stepped down into the boat, the village there on  shore much like that the Vikings had built sixteen  centuries before.   With me was the lieutenant from the raider, the  vessel having  escorted us into this little snug bay.  While  the  Diana was  in no danger due to its construction, any wooden ship  would have been in a lot of trouble, judging from the catapults set up.Dularn  as she had seemed.  That she still lusted after the  "em- pire" of her dreams, a "second Rome" here on the western coast of North America stretching from Baja to Alaska.  A social order  of semi-independent nations all ruled by that tall Imperial Empress."It  is a steam powered battleship, proof against all,  your majesty,"  I answered, seeing her nod.  Her name was  Freydis,  a fitting name I felt for such a woman.  With Dularnian weapons and our own "advisors" she might be able to hold Valeris at bay  now."You  wish to cross blades with me?" I smiled back,  undoing my ornate uniform coat, handing it to the awed midshipman  stand- ing  behind  me.  A lot of the women of this time  have  inflated opinions  of their own abilities.  There are, so far as  I  know, only  three  that are better than me, and I'm married to  one  of them.  One of the other two was aboard the Diana waiting for us.It is similar in a way to knife fighting techniques as taught  by my old D.I. when I was a new recruit in the U.S. Marines back  in the  20th Century.  The long heavy sword as used by those to  the north of Dularn is not really as "effective" a weapon as thought."Queen Freydis Thorson," Freydis answered, stepping up on to the  metal surfaced inside deck of the Diana, regarding  Darlanis with  that "look" that one warrior woman gives another  if  she's not  at all sure that she's too "friendly".  Freydis was also  of course well aware that Darlanis was the "source" of her problems.Darlanis is a very "popular" monarch, even although "life"  under her rule is not as "free" as one might wish it to be, mainly  due to the fact that Darlanis herself has a hard time "understanding" these  sort of things.  A problem "compounded" by the  fact  that Queen Sharon herself is a "liberal" in the late 20th Century way.Trelandar  than in the rest of the Empire in the sense  of  there being less "restriction" of business and so forth.  Sarn and  Ta- lon  (Queen Dai is quite "liberal") are thus in a way quite  like the United States of the last decade of the Twentieth Century.  I suspect too that Darlanis' own political viewpoint is colored  by the fact that she considers herself to be following in the "foot- steps"  of Janet Rogers, who is of course now almost  "worshiped" by many people still despite the fact that she was more a benevo- lent dictator than any actual "champion of freedom" as such...I was strongly tempted just then to point out that the only "dif- ference" between her and Princess Tara was the fact that she  was "blonde"  and Tara "brunette".  Darlanis is an  extremely  "ambi- tious"  woman, one who believes she was destined to  rule  "all"."You have a `choice'," Darlanis snapped to Freydis, standing up, the rapid rise and fall of her breast leaving no doubts as to the emotions she felt burning through her body.  "You can  either decide  to support me or watch your country be destroyed,  turned into a lifeless wasteland as a memorial to your own stupidity.""You  sent the other ships away," Queen Freydis said to  me, her steel gray eyes burning into mine as we sat there at the long oak  table, a number of rough looking men sitting there with  us, such being Freydis' own advisors and military commanders.  A num- ber of slave girls, some of who I suspected were "Dularnian", be- ing of "service" to us.  The smoke from the cooking fires and the very  "attire" of these people reminding me again of the  Vikings of perhaps the Tenth or Eleventh Century.  Their "culture"  being quite  similar except that they built a better grade  of  raiding ship,  their fore and aft rigged schooners the equal of  anything that had ever come out of a shipyard back home there in Arsana.Neither the North Star or the Northlight were a match for  Darla- nis' steam frigates, and the Diana could easily "handle" anything that the Imperials possessed.  I had a great deal of "confidence" in my "invincible battleship", which no weapon of this era  could even "dent", the Diana being for all practical purposes invulner- able to all known weapons with the possible exception of cannons.Queen  Freydis as boatload after boatload of firewood  was  taken out  to the Diana.  I would stuff the ship full, stack it  every- where  I could.  I needed the "range" to be able to fight  effec- tively against roving Imperial ships that I'd find to the north."My sex will," Freydis smiled.  I knew that Dularnian  slav- ers used to pick off "Northmen girls" whenever they could get the chance to do so.  Such women were considered to be ideal servants back in Dularn, although the Imperial female slave is  considered "better"  at pleasing a master.  "It is wrong to enslave  us  be- cause of our sex," she added, reminding me muchly of Maris Marn."`Enemy in sight'," the midshipman called down, the scouting fourth rate turning away, fleeing back to our protection.  I  had little  doubt  that Darlanis would fight.  She  had  three  steam frigates, three first rate triremes, all "54's", an equal  number of  lesser smaller biremes, perhaps a couple "third  rates"  (two masted  fore and aft schooners), along with armed transports  and everything else.  The "fact" that the Imperials were "willing" to divide  their forces such spoke much of what  Darlanis'  ultimate intentions here were.  With "hostile" power to the north, to  the south, Darlanis had no doubt hoped to "persuade" Queen Maris that the best "option" she had here was to "submit" to Imperial  rule."Darlanis is now letting her triremes take the lead," Sandra said  to me, peering through the still open hatches as the  Diana approached the enemy fleet at three quarters speed.  I thought of Darlanis,  tall and golden.  I respected the woman,  admired  her e