5722018450	Wrox.com is where programmers go to browse the current and upcoming Wrox titles, as well as errata, sample chapters, and downloadable code.  A free monthly e-newsletter is offered to registered subscribers.  The site hosts a forum for programmers to interact and take an active role in on-line discussions. The latest features at Wrox.com are articles and videos from the authors.Now about to be published in its Eleventh Edition,  AGS has sold more than one million copies and has become one of the most influential and indispensable tools of the trade for architects, builders, draftsmen, engineers and students, interior designers, real estate professionals and many others.  The Architecture Graphic Standards Student Edition gives students their own new edition of this classic resource, skillfully abridged to include the information they need most.In recent years the Graphic Standards library has expanded to include Interior Graphic Standards, Planning and Urban Design Standards, and the most recent publication, Landscape Architectural Graphic Standards.   Each of these major references follows in the tradition of Architectural Graphic Standards and is the first source of comprehensive design data for any design or construction project.Sixty-eight years later and ten editions complete, Architectural Graphic Standards, or as I like to call it, Graphic Standards, has quadrupled in size and immeasurably in depth of content, thanks to the dedicated work of its gifted editors, architects, and contributors, I even understand that it is in digital form on CD-ROM located in the back cover of this book. What's next, a Graphic Standards website?I can't think of another book published this century that has supported, taught and delighted our profession as much as Graphic Standards. These ten editions are a chronicle of twentieth-century U.S. architectural practice standards.Audel guides and pocket manuals have been the essential reference books used by four generations of skilled trades workers. Now, Wiley offers these Audel manuals, fully updated for twenty-first-century standards and equipment.Tens of thousands of professionals in the life sciences have made Current Protocols the most successful series of its kind. It's the only authoritative, regularly-updated, comprehensive and straightforward source for research methods and topical overviews available.Dependable and Respected: Leading scientists contribute methods within the units; then, our professional staff and distinguished editorial board members review, fine-tune, and edit the content for clarity. The result: step-by-step protocols that leave nothing to guesswork, with overviews that clearly spell out the purposes, applications, limitations, advantages and other critical issues associated with each methodology.Comprehensive: With 13 titles and counting, Current Protocols truly spans the life sciences. Each title provides hundreds of basic to advanced research protocols and overviews. Each protocol contains a materials list, and the units feature expert commentary and guidelines written and edited by colleagues who understand your needs and can anticipate your questions.Extensively Illustrated and Logical: Complex procedures are clarified with illustrations, tables, data charts, diagrams and videos. Intuitively organized and clearly presented, all protocols are easy to understand, follow and implement.Backed by over twenty years of original research with data from over 1 million leaders, The Leadership Challenge is a comprehensive leadership development program created by bestselling authors Jim Kouzes and Barry Posner.The Leadership Challenge is about how leaders mobilize others to want to get extraordinary things done. It's about The Five Practices leaders use to transform values into actions, visions into realities, obstacles into innovations, separateness into solidarity, and risks into rewards. It's about a climate in which people turn challenging opportunities into remarkable successes.Merck & Co. has a long tradition of providing trusted medical and scientific information to doctors, nurses, chemists, veterinarians, pharmacists and other healthcare professionals. Wiley is proud to make the Merck Professional Handbooks -- among the most trusted and widely read sources of medical and pharmaceutical information in the world -- available to you.Pfeiffer serves the professional development and hands-on resource needs of training and human resource practitioners and gives them products to do their jobs better. We deliver proven ideas and solutions from experts in HR development and HR management, and we offer effective and customizable tools to improve workplace performance. From novice to seasoned professional, Pfeiffer is the source you can trust to make yourself and your organization more successful.Pfeiffer produces insightful, practical, and comprehensive materials on topics that matter the most to training and HR professionals. Our Essential Knowledge resources translate the expertise of seasoned professionals into practical, how-to guidance on critical workplace issues and problems. These resources are supported by case studies, worksheets, and job aids and are frequently supplemented with CD-ROMs, websites, and other means of making the content easier to read, understand, and use.Pfeiffer's Essential Tools resources save time and expense by offering proven, ready-to-use materials-including exercises, activities, games, instruments, and assessments-for use during a training or team-learning event. These resources are frequently offered in loose-leaf or CD-ROM format to facilitate copying and customization of the material. Pfeiffer also recognizes the remarkable power of new technologies in expanding the reach and effectiveness of training. All our e-tools comply with rigorous functionality standards. The most appropriate technology wrapped around essential content yields the perfect solution for today's on-the-go trainers and human resource professionals.The free access spectroscopy portal that fulfils the information needs of ALL spectroscopists. spectroscopyNOW.com, a Community of Interest website, has become the definitive spectroscopy resource on the internet, offering a wealth of valuable information, resources and services.Wiley provides a wide range of FREE access spectroscopy resources to fulfil the information needs of all spectroscopists worldwide.  These include the unique free access website: spectroscopyNOW.com, the definite spectroscopy resource on the internet, and its sister site: separationsNOW.com, which serves the separation science community.  Also available are the two FREE colour magazines Spectroscopy Europe and Spectroscopy Asia dedicated to spectroscopists throughout these regions.Spectroscopy Europe MagazineFREE full colour magazine dedicated to spectroscopists throughout Europe with 6 issues per year plus the annual Buyers? Guide. To receive all six issues a year free, simply register for subscription at www.spectroscopyeurope.com.Spectroscopy Asia MagazineFREE full colour magazine for spectroscopists in Asia and the Pacific Rim.  With four issues annually it is available free, when you register for subscription at www.spectroscopyasia.com.Wrightbooks was founded in 1991 by entrepreneurial Australian publisher Geoff Wright, and acquired by Wiley Australia in 2001. This vibrant and highly respected list aims to provide tools to help everyday Australians take control of their financial futures, step by step. We publish about 45 titles per year, many of them new editions of classic finance and personal investment titles from Australia's most respected investment gurus. We have established key franchises in share trading, tax planning, real estate investing, and superannuation.The page you are attempting to access is not available for your geographical location.  If you would like to view the page, you may do so by switching to a different location, but please be advised that you might encounter difficulties making purchases from the site.Using the CASE Learning System, students not only achieve academic mastery of emergency planning topics, but they master real-world skills.  The CASE Learning System also helps students become independent learners, giving them a distinct advantage whether they are starting out or seeking to advance in their careers.Clear, everyday language and clean format. Students can read each chapter without being intimidated by difficult language or overwhelmed by sidebars, textboxes, and other fillers that interrupt the flow of the writing.Modular format.  Instructors can reorder textbook content to suit the needs of a particular class. The text proceeds logically from the basics to more challenging material, and chapters are further organized into sections that are self-contained for maximum teaching and learning flexibility.Pre-test. This pre-reading assessment tool in multiple-choice format introduces chapter material and the learning outcomes. By focusing students? attention on what they do not know, the self-test provides a benchmark against which they can measure their own progress.Goals and Outcomes. These lists identify specific learner capabilities that will result from reading the chapter.  They set students up to synthesize and evaluate the chapter material, and relate it to the real world.Figures and tables. Line art and photos have been carefully chosen to be truly instructional rather than filler. Tables distill and present information in a way that is easy to identify, access, and understand, enhancing the focus of the text on essential ideas without distracting or overwhelming the reader.Key Terms and Glossary. To help students develop a professional vocabulary, key terms are bolded in the introduction, summary and when they first appear in the chapter.  A complete list of key terms with brief definitions appears at the end of each chapter and again in a glossary at the end of the boo