5722018476	Pollens - Pollen is the cause of most seasonal allergies, and is most prevalent in the fall, as well as early spring. Ragweed affects many people, and it pollenates from early August until the first frost. In the spring, pollen from various grasses, trees and weeds irritate most people with seasonal allergies.Allergen-specific IgE antibody test - a blood test used to screen for an allergy to a specific allergen. This test is not as sensitive as the skin test, so it only used when skin testing is not possible due to medications you are taking, or reaction problems in your skin.In some instances, it is most helpful to simply avoid the allergen. Allergic reactions to most household allergens (pet dander, dust, mold) can be avoided by vacuuming and dusting often, wearing a pollen mask when doing yardwork or dusting, keeping windows tightly closed during fall and spring, and changing the air filters monthly in heating and air conditioning systems.Antihistimines are used to prevent or relieve allergy symptoms by preventing the body from reacting to the allergen. Antihistimines are best used if your symptoms include sneezing, runny nose, itchy eyes or congestion. Side effects include drowsiness and dry mouth.Immunotherapy gradually exposes a person to increasing amounts of an allergen over a period of time, and helps the person to actually develop an immunity to the allergen. This is the only "cure" for allergies, with the goal being to discontinue use of all other allergy medications within a few months.Related to spiders and ticks, dust mites live in fabrics like bedding and carpeting that collect dust. While people once believed they were allergic to dust, researchers now know it's not the dust itself, but the mites that live in it that cause the problem. And these mites are everywhere where dust accumulates, particularly in bedding, upholstered furniture, carpeting and stuffed animals. They grow best where it's warm and humid. About the only places they don't flourish are where it's very dry or the altitude is more than 3,000 feet above sea level. Mites live on a diet of skin scales naturally shed by humans, and each mite produces between 10 and 20 waste pellets each day. Each egg-laying female can increase the population by 25 to 30 mites every three weeks.The best thing you can do to prevent dust-mite allergies is to remove the places where dust mites live, including wall-to-wall carpeting and overstuffed upholstered furniture. But if major redecorating isn't in your plans or budget, try treating carpets and furniture with a spray containing tannic acid, a compound found in oak bark, coffee, cocoa and tea.Although its effectiveness against mites is questionable, tannic acid can help by chemically changing house dust and neutralizing the protein that causes the allergic reactions. You'll have to reapply the spray every few months to control mite allergens, and it should be used in conjunction with the chemical benzyl benzoate, which kills the mites. Benzyl benzoate comes as a powder to be applied to carpets every six months and then vacuumed up.Mites like it warm and moist, so dehumidifying your home can help. Air conditioning helps reduce humidity, but you may also want to invest in a dehumidifier, especially if you live in a southern climate. Dust mites do best when the relative humidity is above 55 percent, and grow poorly when it's below 45 percent. When indoor temperatures are close to 80 F, humidity should be lowered below 40 percent. Meanwhile, clean air-conditioning filters every month.Big, overstuffed furniture provides the perfect comfort zone for dust and mites. So if you're shopping for new furnishings, choose sleeker, pared-down wooden products without less stuffing. Whenever possible, replace wall-to-wall carpeting with wood or sheet-goods flooring and with area rugs that can be laundered easily. Of course, you'll need to use dust-removing polishes on wood furniture and floors.Installing air cleaners and air filters to remove dust is a costly solution that may not be worth the investment. Air cleaners are available as attachments to your heating system or as portable units that can be moved from room to room. The most effective ones have high-energy, particle-arresting (HEPA) filters capable of trapping very small particles. Others use electrical charges, static electricity or ionizers to trap particles. None work well enough, however, to substitute for other steps you can take to cut down on indoor allergens. Air cleaners that generate ozone gas have no effect on allergens in the air and may worsen allergy symptoms because the ozone they emit can irritate the respiratory system.In most homes, the highest concentration of dust mites is in the bedroom, where they love to get cozy in mattresses, pillows and carpeting. However, keeping your bedroom hospital-clean and making some minor adjustments to decor can send mites packing.Wash all bedding - including mattress pads, comforters and blankets - in hot water every week to 10 days. Walls, ceilings, closets and the backs and bottoms of furniture also should be cleaned or dusted weekly.Avoid feather or down pillows. Instead, use polyester fiber-fill such as Hollofil or Dacron. While dust mites like synthetic pillows as much as feathers or foam, the synthetic ones can be washed. No matter what you use, all pillows should be encased in an allergen-proof cover.Don't use fuzzy blankets. They tend to collect more dust than other blankets. By contrast, electric blankets have been shown to reduce dust mites. Other dust collectors include stuffed animals and bed canopies, which should be removed or avoided.After pollens, molds are the leading cause of airborne allergies. Mold forms on fallen leaves, soil, debris and other moist surfaces. A compost bin, for example, is the perfect breeding ground for outdoor mold. Like many pollen allergies, outdoor mold tends to be bothersome from the spring to late fall. But unlike pollen, mold counts tend to peak in the afternoon, not the morning.While some fungicides are made especially for molds, you also can treat your home as you would your toughest laundry, with chlorine bleach. Have someone who isn't allergic mix one cup of bleach with 10 cups of water and scrub areas of your home that are damp and inviting for molds, including bathroom fixtures, floors and walls, shower curtains, tile and behind the toilet; window moldings; basement walls, floors and ceilings; and around the laundry room. You also should wash shower curtains periodically in hot water with laundry detergent and bleach.Continuously running the air conditioner or a dehumidifier can lower the moisture enough to prevent the growth of mold, provided you keep these machines clean. Filters on dehumidifiers and air conditioners should be scrubbed regularly. If you detect a musty odor, also spray the filters with an aerosol mold killer. Running an air conditioner or dehumidifier without proper cleaning can contaminate it with mold, possibly worsening allergies. A dehumidifier should keep the humidity at a level below 50 percent, ideally, between 35 percent and 45 percent.Mold can grow in old shoes and on mattresses and furniture. If you notice your allergies aren't improving with other measures, do some spring cleaning to get rid of potential breeding grounds, especially carpets, no matter how new. It's nearly impossible to keep carpets dry enough to prevent the growth of molds, even if your basement doesn't leak. If you have any concerns about your mattress, whether it's old or new, encase it in plastic.Proper outdoor ventilation of indoor appliances is especially important for people with mold allergies, so be sure your clothes dryer and stove are vented outside. While you're at it, also clean the refrigerator drip pan and check the fridge for excess moisture. You'll notice it on the sides.Ideally, anyone with mold allergies shouldn't be mowing the lawn, raking the leaves or tending to the garden. But if you must do yard work, wear a face mask or do it after you've taken your allergy medicine. Raking leaves, mowing or even digging can kick up mold allergens and cause a reaction. A face mask can keep these allergens from entering your respiratory system. Also, try to do it in the morning, before mold counts peak.Man's best friend can be anything but that to those with pet allergies. Here, the big problem is a protein in the skin and saliva of cats and dogs, not their hair, as is widely believed. Despite popular opinion, allergic reactions are not determined by an animal's breed or length of hair. Hairless or short-haired pets are just as likely to cause an allergic response as long-haired breeds.The trouble starts when the pet grooms itself and the offending protein allergen attaches to animal hair or dander and to carpeting, furniture and other objects the animal comes in contact with. As the allergen dries, the loosened hair becomes airborne. And research shows that the cat allergen even sticks to walls, clothing and other surfaces, which explains why some people may be allergic in cat-free homes. Other people get a reaction from an allergen found in the urine and hair of guinea pigs and gerbils.When pets are outdoors, their dander is less likely to cause danger to you. After building their dog house (or cat home), do a little maintenance on your own abode. It's best to remove carpet and upholstery where pet hair collects, especially cat hair. As with dust mite  allergies, bare wood or sheet-goods flooring is best. Area rugs are fine if they can be laundered.If pets cannot be kept outdoors, restrict them to the kitchen and other non-carpeted rooms. Even if bedrooms aren't carpeted, keep pets from your sleeping quarters, since that's where most of your time indoors is spent.Even if you keep your pets outdoors, and especially if you don't, try to improve ventilation by opening windows and air intake vents. These steps will improve indoor circulation