5722018497	I think it is worth noting that the general strike in France in May-June of 1968, which I was privileged to be in on at the time--not that I provoked it, but I was in Paris at the time during that month trying to move a family with two young children from one apartment to another with no gas available to buy for my car.  That was provoked because, for the first and now still the last time in the history of the French university, a policeman walked onto the campus of the University of Paris.  Sanctuary was broken by the attempt of the external police authority to enter the university to arrest an alleged student criminal, and France was brought to its knees through a general strike for a month.  The president of France had to return from overseas to try to calm the situation.  Now I do not know why this government in Manitoba would attempt to breach sanctuary and to defile the sacredness of the space that we are attempting to protect within the university.The government's attitude to universities should be one of respect, trust and awe.  No institution in our society has more internally structured methods for accountability than does the world of research and teaching.  External efforts to intrude on that operation and to breach that trust can only result in expensive inefficiencies and loss of productivity.Renaissance, for example, they tenaciously clung obstructively to the teaching of science which was highly honoured in the Middle Ages and resisted the urgings of the external society to teach law, history, rhetoric, ethics, business.  The universities, in clinging tenaciously to the teaching of irrelevant science, were both behind the times and, as you might recognize today, ahead of the times because the cycle in favour of science came back. The universities in the 18th Century seemed to be repositories for the idle rich to spend a few years drinking and chatting before they went out to inherit their fathers' noble titles, but universities corrected themselves, recovered their thrust, their sharpness, their self-criticism, their scholarship and went into and through the 19th and 20th Centuries as leaders of society in many, many respects.  Universities have been self-correcting.  They are as often ahead of the times as they are behind them, and governments tamper with the time-honoured traditions of self-governance at the risk of governments and to the shame of governments.Mrs. McIntosh:  Thank you very much.  That was most interesting and delivered in a very interesting way as well.  You talk a lot about the history of the universities.  You did not mention, though, how the universities were funded in early days.  You mentioned a lot about self-criticisms, which I appreciate and I believe and I acknowledge.  I am just wondering if you could answer two questions for me.  They will be my only two.  I take your points here and I will consider them.My two questions are these:  Do you think the fact that in the beginning the funding mechanisms for university were different than they are today has any differing aspects of accountability attached to it, and in terms of the self-criticism, what would you say today the universities are criticizing themselves for, if anything?Mr. Bailey:  The funding of universities in the Middle Ages is even more complex than it is today, I imagine.  The church was very important and subsidized quite a number of aspects but also students paid directly, personally to the professors for their teachings.  It very much depended on the size of the class as to what you would be paid because the students paid you for the teaching that came in.  There were endowments from interested members of the community that added to this and universities grew largely through endowments, private people, aristocrats, businessmen, people who had an interest in what was going on.  Everybody who contributed money either hoped to gain merit in heaven through salvation or, and this is quite literally true in what they are up to, had some economic or political or family interest that they were hoping to advance.  But the money then gets given and the universities use their freedom and their wisdom to pursue all of the kinds of pursuits that intelligent people like to respond to in their interests.  As Professor Silver so eloquently put it, this often appears abstract, irrelevant, counterproductive, in conflict, inconsistent, overlapping, duplicating, but out of this mix somehow magically people are poised and are positioned to respond to unforeseen emergencies and to resolve problems that no could ever sort out.That is the best I think I can do for the moment for your first question.  The second one is that at the level of teaching the student grapevine is fairly efficient.  Professors who are abusive or who are incompetent or ill prepared tend to lose students, and those that teach well tend to win student adherence.  Students talk to the chairs of the departments; students talk to the dean.  They can lodge complaints, and there are formal mechanisms for dealing with them.Mr. Bailey:  But on a scholarly level, everything we do is subject to criticism.  Book manuscripts are sent out by editors to two, three or four internationally renowned scholars in that field, and the editors themselves have opinions.  Articles and journals are vetted this way.  We do not get into print without being very, very carefully monitored by our peers, and we frequently have to listen to very harsh truths about what we thought was excellent.  We send it out, and we learn differently.This criticism is going on all the time.  We are responding to new needs all the time, but we are also resistant to the shade of the month.  We have been around for 700 years.  We know how often this month's shade was last week's or last generation's.  There is no point in retooling universities dramatically, frequently and then having to put them back the way they were.  They are wonderfully variegated, motley inconsistent, chaotic places, and they do their job best because of that.If you have read for example the analysis, In Pursuit of Excellence, that talks about the way the major corporations have been successful, it is exactly the same way, allowing duplication, allowing chaos, allowing research to go off and then IBM gets a better computer.  It is only since IBM tried to streamline this to look to the bottom line that it became upstaged by other companies that were more willing to indulge creativity and duplication.Mr. Bailey:  Well, I cannot do better than my predecessors.  One can tinker with this bill endlessly and try to improve it but it is conceived in such a wrong-headed spirit, such a spirit so divorced from the whole tradition of a free and democratic and open society, that the only way that it could be made palatable I think is to put it in the fireplace over here and start over.Mr. Bailey:  Nor will this bill.  The whole spirit behind the bill is wrong-headed for the culture that our parents have sacrificed in several wars to protect, and unless somebody can kind of get back to what is appropriate for a free and democratic society, it will be impossible even to conceive of a bill that would be appropriate.  To tinker with a bill that is just mean and wrong-spirited, it seems to me to be a waste of time.I understand that amendments were made to certain clauses in Bill 32.  I would like to thank this committee for those amendments, but I feel that they do not go far enough in ensuring that the people in Manitoba's post-secondary education community had sufficient say in academic policy decision making and have those resources necessary to administer programs that are important to all Manitobans.  Frankly, I wish this bill did not exist at all, and I hope beyond all hope that it will be scrapped, but it seems the government feels it is necessary to limit decision making to a small circle of individuals.There are elements of Bill 32 that appear to be positive moves to improve post-secondary education in Manitoba, and I think we can all agree the system needs to be improved to benefit all citizens of this province.  One of those elements is Clause 3(2) titled Limitation which says the council may not interfere with the basic right of a university or college to formulate academic standards, the independence of a university or college in fixing standards of admission and graduation, or the independence of a university or college in the appointment of staff--to paraphrase.  It is vital in this so-called democratic society that institutions of higher learning be able to remain free from coercion from higher powers.  One would think the Progressive Conservative government is in favour of this.  After all, this government has declared loudly and frequently its belief that big government is evil and must stay out of the lives of the people it represents.As I read the rest of Bill 32, I soon discovered that the positive sounding Clause 3(2) would be made completely irrelevant by what follows.  Clause 4, the direction from the minister is quite disturbing to me.  The framework of accountability is established by the minister who can say what priorities the council should follow.  The Council on Post-Secondary Education is accountable to the minister.  All right, that is fair enough.  I feel that post-secondary education in the province of Manitoba should be accountable to the democratically elected government of the time.  That is fair enough.  But when does the council become accountable to the students, the faculty, the staff, the administration of those institutions in question and overall the people of Manitoba?  There seems to be not a single mention of this form of accountability anywhere in Bill 32 which leads me to conclude that the power to govern universities and colleges in Manitoba rests solely with COPE and the government minister responsible for education.  So what happens to all that stuff about council not interfering i