5722018495	For objects that already have a "mnt-by:" attribute the authorisation is based only on the maintainer referenced in the "mnt-by:" attribute of the 'old' object. This is how the authorisation currently works.Timeline: We plan to introduce the changes in the authorisation mechanism only after we have concluded cleanup of inconsistencies [1]. The tentative milestone for the cleanup to be finished is 1 March 2004. The implementation is planned for the beginning of April 2004. Any changes to the authorisation mechanism will be announced at least two weeks in advance.In the new proposal this will change. The authorisation will be based on the "mnt-domains:" attribute in the smallest less specific INETNUM object. If the "mnt-domains:" attribute does not exist, the authorisation will 'cascade' from "mnt-lower:" to the "mnt-by:" attributes.We have tried to assess how often an LIR uses different maintainers for the allocations, assignments and related DOMAIN objects. Our estimate (see appendix) is that in 15% of the cases there are differences. Our explanation for a large number of cases where the maintainers differ is that the LIR has delegated the responsibility to maintain address space and relevant reverse space to their customers. In those cases the LIR will not be able to create or delete DOMAIN objects themselves but their customers will be able to.When problems are experienced there is a possible work around. If there is a need for the LIRs to maintain the reverse space for the /22 in the example above, the customer could add a "mnt-domains:" attribute containing both Maintainer A and B. This would, off course, involve customer co-operation.Whois Database. Since the database will be used as an authoritative source for the creation of zone files it is important that users consciously add maintainers to their objects, thereby making the choice about the level of authorisation they want to use to protect their objects.The operational impact of this is that users will have to adapt their processes and/or software to add "mnt-by:" attributes and make sure that, when created or modified, the objects are submitted with the credentials that belong to the maintainer referenced in the "mnt-by:" attribute.The majority of INETNUM objects that represent PI space assigned after 1997 contain a "mnt-by:" attribute that points to a maintainer associated with the address space user. For users of PI space that do not have such a "mnt-by:" attribute the situation is more problematic. They will have to contact an LIR to request the addition of the "mnt-by:" and "mnt-domains:" attributes. The details of that procedure are out of the scope of this document.RIPE NCC through the use of domain objects. For several historical reasons there are a number of inconsistencies between the domain objects and the reverse delegation information in the DNS. Since we want to move to a system in which the Whois Database is the authoritative source for data that is published in the DNS (see [1]), there is a need to remove these inconsistencies.In this proposal, we will address the inconsistencies between data represented through the domain objects in the Whois Database and the reverse delegation data in our zone-files. We will also propose solutions to fix these inconsistencies.Reverse DNS-related updates to the RIPE database must be sent to auto-inaddr@localhost, otherwise zone configurations can not be updated. There are objects in the RIPE Database created via methods other than by sending an e-mail to auto-inaddr@localhost, causing this type of inconsistency.Records (RRs) in our zone files occurs as a mixture of the first two inconsistencies. The domain object has been added or modified at one point via auto-inaddr@localhost, but then either updated manually or by auto-dbm@localhost.This type of inconsistency occurs in domain objects that can not map to a valid DNS entry. As an example, 8080.80.in-addr.arpa is an invalid entry. Only reverse address space mapping is taken into account.We are in the process of integrating auto-inaddr@localhost and auto-dbm@localhost, so that domain updates and other types of updates can be performed from the same source. Until then, in order to prevent further inconsistencies, updates sent to auto-dbm@localhost containing only reverse domain objects will automatically be forwarded to auto-inaddr@localhost. Updates that contain a mixture of domain and other types of objects will be returned to the user unprocessed, warning him/her to split the objects and resend.The goal of the clean-up is to streamline the contents of domain objects and zone configuration files so that we can create zone files from the Whois Database. If choices have to be made about which data is more accurate , the data in the DNS has prevalence over the data in the Whois Database.The approach followed in the clean-up is to identify inconsistencies, notify the contact persons for the domain objects, provide them with a suggested fix and allow maintainers to fix their objects (details below).After about six weeks the RIPE NCC will send messages about inconsistencies still present in the system. Two weeks after this message has been sent, the RIPE NCC will apply the suggested fix to the domain objects automatically.RRs at the parent side are different from NS RRs at the child side of a zone). Therefore the suggested domain object might not represent the actual set of authoritative nameservers and fail during submission by the maintainer.Contact persons(*) in the domain object will be notified that the contents of the "nserver:" attributes will be replaced by the entries in zone files if there are any, otherwise the object will be deleted. One IP address may refer to many hostnames, therefore automatically replacing it with its host entry may be erroneous.This timeline allows for a two month period in which customers are informed and have the opportunity to fix inconsistencies. The end of February milestone is tentative and may extended during the cleanup if unexpected problems are encountered.AfriNIC is the African, neutral, not-for-profit organisation that has been proposed by the African community to act in the best interests of the community for the purpose of managing the IP addressing in the continent.The motivation for that is that under the current policy, startup LIRs that do not already hold address space cannot get an initial PA allocation (which would be a /20 as of today, or bigger), because in many cases, they cannot demonstrate immediate need, or prior utilization of sufficient address space.The problem with this is that in the end, it's very likely that more than one route will end up in the global BGP table (where one PA route would be sufficient), and also it encourages lying to the RIRs (PI space must not be distributed to third parties, i.e., LIR customers).A second drawback of this is that people may need to adapt their BGP filters to permit /21s from the network block(s) where these allocations are made from.  So the RIPE NCC needs to document this accordingly, and ideally, well in advance.Gert Doering (SpaceNet AG) stated that he has been busy with RIPE for the last 7 to 8 years. Since he has been Co-Chair for the last year, he is willing to take over as Chair. He also thanked Hans-Petter for all the work he did for the working group over the last year. And if the WG is willing to have him as Chair then he will volunteer to be the Chair.He has tried to spend some time on his commitment to the WG but has been having problems. Over the last two months he has been reloading himself and have exchanged some opinions with the Chair and Co-Chair. Andrea has decided to continue with his commitment as Co-Chair.Hans-Petter Holen thought that there would be a check box in the request form asking the requester if they were going to have a reasonable number of customers, and all that is needed is for this to be checked and the requester would qualify.Ricardo Patara (LACNIC) stated that LACNIC changed their policy with no numbers, but they have restrictions on the time frame in which the prefix allocated is used which is 1 year. They also have 2 years set for running services using the IPv6 space. Minimum allocation size is /32 and customers' request get minimum allocation. If they need more they need to provide plans to use this? What they also check is the number of services they have and the number of users they have.Jordi Palet, understands the fear of removing the 200 limit because it could generate an explosion in demand, but to look at what happened in the other regions that have implemented this, they have had a decline in requesting IPv6 allocations. He doesn't believe that it will change the situation, but will provide access to prefix to small ISPs which can have a few big customers, and why are they not allowed to get IPv6 resources?Hans-Petter Holen clarifies that there is no objection is to the way we are changing the fixed number, but the objection is making the change in this particular way. Are the proposals in other regions more specific?Wilfried Woeber (ACOnet, DB WG Chair and NRO NC) wanted to make the same comments and he believes that all three proposals need some serious reworking. These two policies end up mixing things that are not really related to each other. There is no real relationship between the HD ratio on one end and offering the freedom to justify a /48, there should be no aggreement to different aspects of the proposal.Geoff Huston stated that in APNIC there was a different proposal, first proposal was to remove the /48 as a fixed point but then how do you figure out what full is, because we do not use consistent end-sites? If we say 80% of the /32 means 80% of the space. If you take away the fixed end-site, how will you count what full is? What is the HD ratio going to be applied to? We will apply it to a /56...what does a used allocation really means? How do you do the mathematics to say it i