5722018501	It is common practice, however, for the government body making such designations to implement safeguards to monitor the functions of the collective.<SUP>37</SUP> To this end, the Register recommends new terms that afford the copyright holders a right to audit the collective's practices in handling the royalty fees. The Register takes this step to insure copyright holders access to the records of the organization charged with the fiduciary responsibility of making an equitable distribution among those entitled to receive a portion of the funds, while at the same time preserving the confidentiality of the organization's business records. These terms mirror those formulated by the parties and adopted by the Panel which allow the collective to audit the business records of the Services to insure proper payment of the royalties.Panel gave any consideration to the manner in which the collecting entity would deduct from payments to copyright owners its costs of administering the funds it receives and disburses. Nevertheless, the Panel should have addressed this key term of the compulsory license.Therefore, the Register finds it necessary to establish an additional term that permits the collecting entity to deduct from the royalties it pays to copyright owners the costs it incurs in administering the funds, so long as the costs deducted are reasonable and are no more than the actual costs incurred by the collecting entity.In considering the evidence in the record, the contentions of the parties, and the statutory objectives, the Register of Copyrights recommends that the Librarian adopt a statutory rate for the digital performance of sound recordings, pursuant to 17 U.S.C. 114, of 6.5% of gross revenues from subscribers residing within the United States.In addition, the Register recommends that the Librarian adopt the reasonable terms propounded by the Panel except for those terms concerning the payment schedule for arrears and potential limitations on the scope of copyright infringement. The Register also recommends setting June 1, 1998, as the effective date for implementing the new rate and terms in order to ease the burden on each Service on meeting its initial obligations under the statutory license.Panel in the matter to set reasonable terms and rates for the digital performance right in sound recordings, 17 U.S.C. 114, the Librarian of Congress fully endorses and adopts her recommendation to set the rate for the statutory license at 6.5% of gross revenues from U.S. residential subscribers. This rate shall apply to those digital audio services represented in this proceeding and any other eligible digital audio service of the same type that subsequently enters the market and makes use of the statutory license. The Librarian of Congress also adopts the Register's recommendation to reject the terms concerning potential limits on what constitutes copyright infringement and the proposed schedule for the payment of the arrears.Librarian is exercising his authority under 17 U.S.C. 802(f) and is issuing this order which adopts new Copyright Office regulations setting reasonable terms and rates for the digital performance right in sound recordings.Confidential information shall also include any information so designated in a confidentiality agreement which has been duly executed between a nonexempt subscription digital transmission service and an interested party, or between one or more interested parties; Provided that all such information shall be made available, for the verification proceedings provided for in Secs. 260.5 and 260.6 of this part.On February 7, 2002, the U.S. Copyright Office issued a notice of a proposed rulemaking on the requirements for giving sound recording copyright owners reasonable notice of the use of their works in connection with the section 114 statutory license for certain digital transmissions of public performances of sound recordings, and on the requirements for how records of such use will be kept and made available to copyright owners.SUMMARY: The Copyright Office of the Library of Congress is requesting comments on the requirements by which copyright owners shall receive reasonable notice of the use of their works from subscription digital transmission services, and how records of such use shall be kept and made available to copyright owners. The regulations are required to be adopted by the Digital Performance Right in Sound Recordings Act of 1995, and are intended to ensure proper payment to copyright owners.Among other things, it created a new compulsory copyright license that is paid by nonexempt subscription digital transmission services to the copyright owners of sound recordings. 17 U.S.C. 114(f). Congress directed the Librarian of Congress to establish regulations by which the entities availing themselves of this new license would keep records of their use, make the records available to the copyright owners, and give notice to the copyright owners of the use of their works.The Digital Performance Right in Sound Recordings Act gave to copyright owners of sound recordings an exclusive right to perform their works by means of a digital audio transmission. Certain digital transmissions were exempted from the scope of this right, 17 U.S.C.If a service offering subscription digital transmissions qualifies for the compulsory license, it has the choice of reaching a voluntary agreement with the owners of the sound recordings it wishes to use, or, failing that, it may petition the Librarian of Congress to convene a copyright arbitration royalty panel (CARP) to set the rates and terms of the compulsory license. 17 U.S.C. 114(f). The terms and rates set by a CARP will be applicable to all subscription digital transmission services not subject to a voluntary agreement. However, the above mentioned requirements for notice and recordkeeping are to be set by the Librarian, not the CARP. 17 U.S.C. 114(f)(2).In the meantime, any person who wishes to perform a sound recording publicly by means of a nonexempt subscription transmission may do so without infringing the rights of the copyright owner of the sound recording by complying with the notice requirements set by the Librarian of Congress and agreeing to pay the royalty fees as they are determined. 17 U.S.C. 114(f)(5).Although we do not propose any specific regulatory language, commentators should consider both the adequacy of the notice to the copyright owners of the sound recordings and the administrative burdens placed on the digital transmission services in providing notice and maintaining records of use.SUMMARY: The Copyright Office of the Library of Congress is requesting further comments on the requirements by which copyright owners shall receive reasonable notice of the use of their works from subscription digital transmission services, and how records of such use shall be kept and made available to copyright owners. The Digital Performance Right in Sound Recordings Act of 1995 requires the Office to adopt the regulations. The Office is requesting this additional comment before issuing interim regulations.Congress directed the Librarian of Congress to establish regulations under which copyright owners may receive reasonable notice of the use of their sound recordings under the statutory license, and under which entities performing the sound recordings shall keep and make available records of such use. 17 U.S.C. 114(f)(2).Digital subscription transmission services that qualify for the statutory license may reach a voluntary agreement as to rates and terms with sound recording copyright owners, or may petition the Librarian of Congress to convene a copyright arbitration royalty panel (CARP) to set rates and terms for those entities that have not reached voluntary agreement. 17 U.S.C. 114(f). On June 4, 1996, no voluntary agreement having been reached, the parties petitioned the Librarian to convene such a CARP. Rates and terms set by the CARP will apply to all subscription services not subject to voluntary agreement. 17 U.S.C.Congress to establish regulations by which copyright owners may receive reasonable notice of the use of their sound recordings under statutory license, and under which records of such use shall be kept and made available by the entities performing the sound recordings. 17 U.S.C.Proposed Rulemaking in the Federal Register requesting comments on the requirements by which copyright owners should receive reasonable notice of the use of their works from subscription digital transmission services and how records of such use should be kept and made available to copyright owners. The Office asked commentators to consider both the adequacy of the notice to sound recording copyright owners and the administrative burdens placed on the digital transmission services in providing notice and maintaining records of use. 61 FR 22004 (May 13, 1996).In this Notice of Inquiry, the Copyright Office requests further written comment from interested parties relating to quarterly reports of use to be provided by digital subscription services, before proceeding to issue interim regulations under section 114. The regulations will be issued on an interim basis due to the developing nature of the technology to be employed in accommodating the reporting requirements.Finally, issues exist concerning how the reports of use will be kept or made available for sound recording copyright owners who are not members of a collective, who cannot be located, or who refuse delivery.RIAA has created a collective to collect and distribute its members' sound recording performance royalties. Owners of copyright in an estimated 90 percent of all sound recordings sold in the United States are members of the RIAA trade association and will likely designate the RIAA collective as their agent or representative; in those cases, digital subscription services would file quarterly reports (and any royalty payments and accounting information) with the RIAA c