5722018505	Now, with the help of a novel scheme developed by chemists at UW-Madison for chemically modifying diamond, the age of the inexpensive, compact sensor that can continuously scan airports, subways and battlefields for the slightest trace of biological weapons may be at hand. Coupled with modern electronics, the new sensors would not only be able to detect nearby biological agents, but also sound alarms and even call for help.The new technology, which has been reported in a series of articles in scientific journals and at scientific meetings, is centered on a newfound ability to make highly stable, DNA-modified diamond films. The ability to build a stable platform that can "constantly sniff" for anything unusual - and that can be integrated with microelectronic devices - has long been a problem of surface chemistry.Hamers worked in collaboration with Lloyd Smith, also a UW-Madison professor of chemistry, to develop the chemistry for the new diamond surfaces, and with Dan van der Weide, a UW-Madison professor of electrical and computer engineering, to achieve the electronic sensing."Although there have been many advances in 'bio-chip' technologies, getting a stable platform that can be used for continuous monitoring - not just one-shot analysis - has been a long-standing problem," Hamers says. "And diamond solves it."Biological sensors of the future will need to operate at the interface of biology and modern microelectronics. Not only must those sensors possess the ability to detect biological molecules of interest, they will also need to take advantage of the signal amplification and processing properties of microelectronics. Because diamond films can be deposited on silicon, the stuff of which computer chips and other microelectronic devices are made, it provides a bridge between the world of miniature electronics and biology, which requires a chemically stable platform for biosensing.Such sensors, according to Hamers, would be about the size of a postage stamp and could be sprinkled in public places such as airports, bus depots, subways, stadiums and other places where large numbers of people gather. They could act, he says, like a "bio cell phone, where they just sit in place and sniff, and when they detect something of interest, send a signal" to alert security or sound an alarm."This is where we are going and we are almost there. The science is there. We've proven we can make surfaces that are much more stable than anything that existed before," he says. "And we've proven that we can detect the electrical response when biomolecules bind to the diamond surface."Hamers acknowledges that before the new biosensors become practical, significant engineering for packaging and fluid-handling systems for sample introduction must be completed. But while some work remains, he says, "the hardest part appears to be over."In the past, scientists tried in vain to develop surfaces with long-term stability for use as biosensors. But silicon, the material upon which computer-chip technology rests, tended to defy efforts to harness it as a stable surface for sensing biological molecules."A widely recognized problem was that silicon oxide proved not to be a good material to do sensing on," says Hamers. "In the case of silicon, the best available technology did not permit leaving a surface in contact with water for any period of time. It eventually degrades. That was an obstacle to the merging of the microelectronic and biotechnology communities."The biologically modified diamond films, on the other hand, have proved to be remarkably durable, able to withstand multiple cycles of processing DNA, genetic material that can be diagnostic of such things as anthrax, ricin, bubonic plague, smallpox and other molecules that can potentially be used as biological weapons or agents of terror.In a battlefield environment such as the ones U.S. troops may encounter in a war with Iraq, a country accused of developing biological weapons, such sensors could be deployed on vehicles or scattered across the landscape to warn of the presence of such agents. Early warning could save lives and enable soldiers to prepare to operate in a contaminated environment.Chips made with diamond films may also have important economic implications in research. One of the most important new technologies in biology are 'bio-chips' or 'gene chips,' a technology that permits scientists to, among other things, scan biological molecules to assess gene activity. Current technology relies on expensive chips that are used once and discarded."People are putting a lot of time and energy into building 'bio-chips,'" says Hamers. "You use them once and throw them away. There can be a lot of money invested in building a single chip. Although probably not useful for use in clinical applications, if you can reuse a chip in a research environment, it may have important economic implications."The work of the Hamers and Smith groups on biological modification of diamond has been reported in the journal Nature Materials, and at meetings of the Materials Research Society and the American Vacuum Society. The technology's extension to electronic detection will be reported in March at a meeting of the American Chemical Society.Federal funding agencies increasingly are requiring science, engineering and math researchers to get a bigger bang for their buck by integrating enhanced education, connection of research to the national community, and workforce development into their research.Ramaley will help launch the new Center for the Integration of Research Teaching and Learning, a multi-institutional, multidisciplinary initiative aimed at helping students and faculty prepare for success in the changing higher education landscape.For DeMets, a professor of geology and geophysics, his most recent brush with divine opportunity came on Jan. 22 in a Colima, Mexico, hotel room when a 7.8-magnitude earthquake sent a barefoot DeMets and his Mexican field assistant Patti Zamora scrambling for the safety of the open street."I felt this vibrating, and the hotel just started humming. I knew it was an earthquake, and all I could think of was that we had to get out of the building before the surface waves hit," DeMets says.In an earthquake, the surface waves are the last to arrive, after the primary and secondary waves. The surface waves, which roll across the landscape like Malibu breakers, are the waves to fear. They take the greatest toll on life and property.With glass chandeliers swinging wildly and furniture crashing to the floor, the Wisconsin earthquake expert struggled to stay upright and escape the swaying building that was falling down around him. "It was hard to stand up. The floor was really moving."In the street, there was predictable chaos — broken buildings, water pouring from scores of ruptured rooftop cisterns, and people crying and standing in stunned silence. Thirty people died, more than 300 were injured and an estimated 10,000 people were left homeless, the greatest loss occurring among those who lived in the traditional adobe structures of Mexico."This most recent event is actually the second large earthquake we've caught in the area," DeMets says. "In October of 1995, the first large earthquake in 60 years occurred along this fault. For us, it was serendipitous because the goal of our experiment is to study precisely the fault where these earthquakes occurred."The area under DeMets' microscope is a zone that stretches more than 900 miles along the west coast of Mexico. In this zone, the ocean bottom is sliding beneath the North American continent. The process is far from smooth, continuous or predictable. Great slabs of rock get hung up for decades, sometimes centuries, and eventually pop loose, triggering earthquakes like the one that chased DeMets into the streets of Colima."Ultimately, we're trying to understand the earthquake cycle," DeMets explains — how the earth behaves not only during earthquakes but how the earth along these fault lines creeps and slips between large seismic events. To help take the measure of that cycle, DeMets has set up a series of 30 geodetic stations above the fault, a place where three tectonic plates converge making the area a well-known seismic danger zone.For the geoscientist, a large temblor marks the beginning and end of an earthquake cycle. It becomes a geophysical bookmark from which to begin new measurements and analyses along a fault. So, for DeMets and his colleagues, the latest earthquake in Colima marked the beginning of a new chapter in the study of this important fault.For DeMets and Zamora, re-establishing contact with the three other field teams involved in the experiment, including UW-Madison research program manager Bill Unger and graduate student Stuart Schmitt, was the first priority.The two-person teams were scattered across parts of the Mexican states of Colima and Jalisco. Each was responsible for tending to six geodetic stations. A station consists of a simple steel pin — one-half inch in diameter and 6 to 9 inches long — cemented into bedrock or concrete footings. The network set up by DeMets and colleagues is part of a large study of seismic activity along important faults."The trick is to find these things year-after-year and measure their positions," says Unger, a man whose work in the field for more than four decades has taken him from Peru to Kenya to Mexico and the shores of Asia's Lake Baikal, the world's deepest lake."What we do," said DeMets, "is track how these sites, these pins in the earth, move through time and to do that we use global positioning system technology. The technology is so precise you can track, in three dimensions, the very slow motion of the plates of the Earth."By tracking the movement of the pins over a period of years and analyzing the pattern defined by the motions of many sites, geophysicists can determine the relative motion of the plates along a fault.For DeMets and othe