5722018451	"We map the how-tos as part of the processes," Wookey said, explaining that Oracle has made available migration guides to customers. The guides provide details on mapping out the technology to ease the transition, "so if you paid your vendors like this, here is how you do exactly the same thing," he said.Oracle also formed a Fusion steering committee, a subset of a CIO advisory board for JD Edwards, PeopleSoft, Oracle and Siebel customers. The group works together, building business cases to determine the best time to make the transition.Oracle's focus on industry-specific features, similar to SAP AG and Microsoft Business Solutions, has led to "huge" investments in a JD Edwards EnterpriseOne 8.12 tool called Plant Manager dashboard. Capabilities will include metrics on how to manage specific manufacturing operations.Wookey also said Oracle has made investments in business activity monitoring (BAM), which provides real-time analytics to build interactive dashboards and alerts for monitoring business services and processes.Oracle plans to deliver enhanced BAM technology within call-center tools in the next PeopleSoft Enterprise 9.0 release. The application suite will have enhanced customer relationship management (CRM) features. Companies will have the option to manage data from call-center activity and service-level agreements as information changes.Wookey said healthcare is an industry that could benefit from open source technology. A perfect place for an open source initiative would solve the problem based on "how messaging uses specific medical terminologies, which is a big problem just speaking the same language," he said, "We've been talking with large vendors and standards bodies in the healthcare space about if Oracle were to contribute would other companies get on board."The ability to use tabs to toggle from one Web site to another without opening a new browser window has been a feature that has contributed to the popularity of Mozilla Corp.'s Firefox browser. Microsoft has added the feature to IE7, which is currently in beta.Access to the Internet Explorer Feedback site requires a  Passport account and signup is through  Microsoft Connect. The new site is similar to Bugzilla, a bug-reporting site set up for Firefox by Mozilla Corp.Microsoft Corp. on Monday said it was working on a fix for a flaw in Internet Explorer that security experts said was being used by a growing number of Web sites to install  spyware on users' computers.As of Monday, security firm Websense Inc. said the number of unique Web sites taking advantage of the vulnerability had remained at about 200 since Sunday, given that the number of sites taken down have been replaced with a roughly equal number of new sites. The overall number, however, were expected to grow over time.An  entry on the Microsoft Security Response Center  blog said the company was seeing "only limited attacks." Nevertheless, Microsoft was working on a fix that would be ready at least by April 11, the next regularly scheduled patch day, if not sooner.The vulnerability enables hackers to exploit active  scripting in IE to install  keystroke loggers and other malicious software. Active scripting is a Microsoft technology that allows different software components to interact over the Internet.Dan Hubbard, senior director of security at Websense said he believed a "limited number" of people or groups were exploiting the flaw, since malicious code on the sites was similar. Others, however, were expected to follow.The unpatched vulnerability was first disclosed last Wednesday, raising alarms from security companies even before the first Web site exploiting the flaw was found. The SANS Institute's Internet Storm Center, for example,  lifted its InfoCON level to "yellow" for the first time since late December when another  zero-day flaw hit Windows users.The VoIP marketplace is getting another major player in the form of Lycos Phone, which is offering a bundle of free features and services, although users will also have to accept some commercials and banner ads.The crowded VoIP marketplace is getting another major player in for form of Lycos Phone, which is offering a bundle of free features and services, although users will also have to accept some commercials and banner ads.Announced Monday, Lycos Inc., a subsidiary of Korea-based Daum Communication, said its new service will offer 100 free minutes of PC-to-landline calls and users will be able to receive free incoming calls originating from landline and mobile phones. And, supported by partner Globe7, Lycos Phone will have a brace of entertainment options including movie trailers and music videos."Globe7 has built from the ground up as a standards-based Voice-over-IP system with a wide array of voice call features such as voice mail, and integration with the existing U.S. and international telephone networks," said Alfred Tolle, Lycos CEO, in a statement.Like Skype and other VoIP services, Lycos Phone will offer free PC-to-PC calls. Lycos is attempting to differentiate itself from other VoIP services through its entertainment features including multimedia support for music and video on demand from both professional and independent sources. The company cited movie trailers, business news, and sports as other offered features.Microsoft's delay of its Windows Vista operating system won't affect PC shipments, which are expected to grow at slightly more then 10 percent a year over the next several years, according to a report released Monday by IDC.And, while the delay in Vista for its mainstream consumer business is expected to negatively impact sales around the holiday season, Loren Loverde, director of IDC's Worldwide Quarterly PC Tracker, said he expects PC manufacturers and retailers to introduce offers and promotions to help stimulate sales.The market research firm said it expects PC shipments, which had been growing 15 percent annually over the past two years, to slow to 10 percent while actual value of the shipments are likely to weigh in under 5 percent."Some consumers will certainly delay PC purchases until Vista is available, but we expect the delay to shift only moderate volume from the fourth quarter of 2006 into 2007 and will not cause a loss of sales," Loverde said. "The timing of the release will have some impact on when consumers buy, but not so much on whether or not they buy."Asked if he detects a PC Holy Grail in the form of a "killer ap" that could boom sales, Loverde said he hasn't sighted any, but he and colleague Richard Shim, senior research analyst of Personal Computing at IDC, note that ongoing PC improvements taken together help spur new sales. They cited improving display and battery technology for portables as well as faster clock speeds and even improved voice recognition technology as helping sales.Loverde doubts Microsoft's delay of its Office 2007 will have much impact on PC sales either, although he said he imagines some users who like factory-installed software will hold out for the availability of Office 2007 next January.As for the U.S. market, Shim, in a statement Shim: "The prevailing wind driving U. S. PC market growth continues to be consumers and the passage of desktops to portables as their dominant computing platform."Accept 360 aims to ease associated risks that accompany designing and launching new products, as well as supporting them through obsolescence. The collaborative platform analyzes data from company objectives, market requirements, customer preferences and commitments, and competitive dynamics to support product roadmap decisions.The software replaces spreadsheets, presentations, e-mails, market analysis, and technical documentation that companies typically rely on. "If you're getting to market faster with the wrong product it's not good," said Stephen Plume, Accept's chief operating officer. "Products get launched into markets that are not aligned with the company's strategy or the customers' need."Panta Systems Inc. began installing Accept 360 in January, with plans to launch two new product liness later this year, according to Scott Rose, vice president product management and marketing at Panta, which develops next-generation server and x86 system designs for virtual data centers.Accept will help Panta determine target markets and product launch schedules. "We're using Accept at Panta for new product rollouts," Rose said, but companies also can deploy the platform to manage billion-dollar product lines.Plume said Accept 360 isn't a product lifecycle management application, rather software that augments a PLM platform. For example, server manufacturers supporting hardware both Linux. and Windows can better understand the impact to changes in their product line. Accept 360 will provide analysis to aid Panta in the decision to support specific operating systems.For companies that outsource portions of projects, such as design or manufacturing, Accept provides secure access through any Web browser. Those participating in development and launch of the product can contribute to planning decisions easily.Teams work collaboratively, regardless of their location. They can turn market and product strategies into portfolio, platform, and product plans. BEA Systems Inc.; Mercury Interactive Corp.; and Veritas  Software, acquired by Symantec Corp. last year, are among those using the software, Accept said.The feature adds on-the-ground pictures to Virtual Earth, which has been folded into Local Live and offers satellite imagery of geographical locations. The latest capability presents a view similar to what a person would see from a car, Sean Rowe, program manager for Virtual Earth, said in Microsoft's  MSN Search blog.Currently, San Francisco and Seattle are the only cities covered, but "many more cities" would be added by the time the feature is formally integrated into the Windows Live Local site this summer, Rowe said.Although Microsoft says this is not a secu