5722018436	If you scrape your knee or break an arm, your body knows right what to do: make more skin or bone to replace the damaged tissue. But it's not that simple if what's hurt is your heart. When cardiac muscle is destroyed by a heart attack, cardiomyopathy, or other illness or injury, there are no replacement parts waiting in the wings.In some patients, a heart transplant or a mechanical device can help restore at least some of the lost function. But in most instances, the owner of the damaged heart is sentenced to a life of downward spiraling health as the surviving cells literally work themselves to death struggling to do the job of their fallen comrades. Soon, however, that picture may change. With the creation of the Center for Cardiovascular Repair (CCVR) at the University of Minnesota, the stage has been set for moving a revolutionary heart-mending strategy from the laboratory to real life.Known as cellular cardiomyoplasty, the approach involves infusing living cells from other parts of a person's body into his or her heart to restore lost function. This revolutionary approach has been shown to improve heart function in animals and has begun to be tested in humans, with encouraging preliminary results. The rigor of randomized clinical trials is next. CCVR director Doris Taylor should know better than just about anyone what promise this new technology has to offer. In 1998, Taylor led a research team at Duke University in North Carolina that published a paper showing improvement in the function of damaged heart tissue in rabbits after transplantation of leg muscle cells.  "All the pieces are in place here [at the U] to succeed," she says. Those pieces include a cadre of top-notch cardiologists and surgeons; the Stem Cell Institute, which offers opportunities to collaborate in exploring the use of adult stem cells for repairing not only heart but also vascular tissue; the Biomedical Engineering Institute, which can design almost anything we can imagine; the Lillehei Heart Institute; the Center for Magnetic Resonance Research; the Minnesota Molecular and Cellular Therapeutics Facility, which allows researchers to prepare cells under the rigorous conditions needed for human clinical trials; the local biomedical industry community; and what Taylor refers to as a "strong belief in innovation.""I was hired to be the catalyst," she says. "My job is to be a connector among the various aspects that are here and to really help bring together what might have seemed like disparate areas of research into a network, so that we can move ahead faster and better than anyone else and really be the place people think of when they think cardiovascular repair." To learn more about Doris Taylor, read "Hearty enthusiasm."Martha Rueter might have been spotted at cafes all across the Twin Cities the past three years, but she wasn't just sampling salads and sandwiches. Rueter, an associate professor of family social science, was meeting with community leaders to lay the groundwork for The Minnesota Diverse Families Project--an unprecedented study of what it takes for families to live a good life in a diverse Minnesota.Rueter is part of an interdisciplinary and multicultural research team from the College of Human Ecology--along with family social science colleagues Jean Bauer, Kathryn Rettig, William Turner, and Virginia Zuiker--that is probing what quality of life means to African American, American Indian, Asian American, and Hispanic families who call Minnesota home. Can a working-class Hispanic family living on the West Side of St. Paul enjoy as satisfying a quality of life as an affluent African American or Asian American family in southwest Minneapolis? How about an impoverished Native American family in Red Lake compared to a middle-class European American family in Bloomington? The answers probably are far from simple, suspects Rueter, who notes that "almost all quality-of-life assessment tools used today were developed to look at individuals, not families--and most were created by white researchers studying European Americans." "We have a lot of snapshot information about [overall] quality of life [in the state]," Rueter says. "[But] we know almost nothing about how quality of life is defined and experienced among minority racial and ethnic groups in Minnesota--even though the nonwhite population is now about 12 percent of our population and growing. And most important from a policy perspective, we don't know much about long-term quality of life [for those groups]--what improves or lessens it over time."What the researchers have learned, thus far, is that "the things traditionally associated with a high quality of life may not necessarily be in the same place on the list--or on the list at all--for families from nonmajority cultures," says Rueter.For example, "spiritual beliefs play a really important role in how [many ethnic] families experience quality of life," she explains. Among Southeast Asians, particularly the Hmong, "having a lot of children may be a more important indicator of quality of life than other indicators, such as income. Discrimination and other forms of oppression also may play a major role in shaping the quality-of-life experiences of minority families, she adds. For example, Native American community leaders describe "historical grief" as a likely impact on their quality-of-life perceptions. Once the researchers have established these significant quality-of-life components, they will conduct annual interviews with 25 families from each community to track "how and why families' quality of life shifts over time, including the 'little things along the way' that precipitate bigger shifts."Rueter says the study, "Tracking Changes in Quality of Life among Minnesota's Diverse Families," will help policymakers better meet the safety, health, and educational needs of the changing state population. The 2000 U.S. Census reports that Minnesota is becoming more racially and ethnically diverse, and the State Demographic Center projects that by 2020, Minnesota's minority populations will increase to 15 percent of the total population, up from 6.3 percent in 1990. To read the complete story about this project, which is part of the President's Interdisciplinary Academic Initiative on Children, Youth, and Families, see "Completing the Picture."Over the next several months, Minnesota legislators will decide on the state biennial budget, which will include funding for the University for the next two years. The state's budgeting process officially began with the release of Governor Tim Pawlenty's biennial budget proposal at the end of January. The University fared very well in the governor's recommendations, according to University officials. "We are pleased that the governor recognized the need for investment in the U and believe these recommendations are a good start.  Now we need to take our case to the legislature," said Mike Dean, coordinator of the U's Legislative Network.During the coming weeks, legislators will begin making decisions on how to fund the numerous organizations that receive state support. Many of these organizations will work to influence  the budget decisions through letter writing, e-mails, and phone calls. That is why University advocates are stepping up their efforts as well."State legislators like hearing from their constituents," says former state representative Donna Peterson, who is director of the government relations office at the U. "They want to know what's important to the people in their district, and how they can help with their concerns. Supporters or advocates can give those heart-warming, first-hand accounts that can help legislators decide which public entities are deserving of state funding and how much they should get."And that's what the University is counting on come Wednesday, February 23. For the past two years the University has hosted Maroon and Gold Day at the Capitol. The half-day event is an opportunity for University students, faculty, staff, alumni, and members of the public to demonstrate their support for the U, says Dean. Lions: another reason to visit the Capitol"The Lion's Mane," a new exhibit by the Bell Museum of Natural History featuring work by U researchers Craig Packer and Peyton West, will be on display at the Minnesota State Capitol from February 11 to 24. The exhibit includes one of the life-sized toy lions with interchangeable wigs that the researchers used to test the reactions of real lions to different lion mane sizes and colors."It's a day where University supporters can speak directly with legislators and see the legislative process at work," he says. "And this year, more than ever, speaking to legislators is important because the University cannot afford another round of budget cuts. Urging state leaders to reverse the trend of declining state support is key in maintaining a strong University for the state.To learn more about Maroon and Gold Day at the Capitol or to participate in the free activities, which will include a dinner at Coffman Union, see Legislative Network.For information about the University's capital and bonding requests, see www.umn.edu/govrel.He's been called a walking beer barrel, but Two-Ton Tony sure can punch. University student Aaron Radatz is tracing this beer-loving, spaghetti-scarfing boxer's rise to stardom in The Legend of Two-Ton Tony--one of seven puppet acts in ARTiculations: A Puppetry Cabaret at the Rarig Center on the Twin Cities campus February 11 to 27. In addition to Two-Ton Tony, a.k.a. Tony Galento, Radatz will manipulate two other hand puppets, a sock puppet, some cardboard figures, and a Barbie doll from behind an eight-foot-tall, six-foot-wide puppet booth. "I got the idea [for my act] in the bathroom at my parents' last summer," says Radatz, a senior majoring in theatre. "I was reading this book my dad had, that was filled with great stories, and I was fascinated with how physical, bawdy, and over-