5722018466	A small group of growers, unhappy with the arbitration outcome and RBA, have formed a rival bargaining association called the California Raisin Reform Association. But many growers and packers alike believe the industry can support only one bargaining association. Most, including nonmembers like Penner and Rebensdorf, continue to endorse RBA.Some packers were consistent and paid all of their growers the same fair price, while others held out and paid a range of prices. Damage incurred from rains or similar occurrences made the negotiations that much tougher at times. There was also a great deal of work to be done to sign pricing contracts with so many growers.The original master contract has been modified slightly over the years but its original foundation remains intact. RBA signs with a packer to deliver the products of its members. If a packer does not sign, RBA will divert its members? tonnage to another signatory packer.Growers not only voted to reinstate the state marketing order in 1998 but, in May of this year, overwhelmingly approved a five-year continuance of the program. A perton assessment to growers funds the program.The Raisin Administrative Committee, a board comprised of growers and packers, oversees the order. The RAC sets grades and standards for incoming and processed raisins and oversees the disposition of reserve tonnage.A s the 20th century drew to a close, the dairy industry continued to adapt to dynamic market conditions such as advances in production technology (both on the farm and in the milk plant), consolidation and growth of retail food chains, and vertical and horizontal integration in milk manufacturing/processing sectors. Other changes include new trade rules and practices and changes in government dairy programs.Increasing size and productivity of production units and reduction in the number of production plants have become the tell-tale signs of change. Dairy cooperatives have likewise followed this pattern: fewer cooperatives were handling an increasing volume of milk, as the waning years of the century saw another wave of rapid consolidation in the dairy sector.Cooperatives combined with other dairy cooperatives for various reasons such as: to take advantage of scale economies; to better configure and utilize a system of manufacturing plants and to reduce operating overhead; to foster marketing clout; and to secure milk supplies, often eliminating overlapping activities, such as milk pick-up routes. Another driving force behind the mergers was to keep pace with consolidation in the retail sector, thereby allowing the unified cooperatives to supply larger volumes and meet customer product requirements through horizontal integration.All but one of the 26 cooperatives organized by these new groups of farmers seeking alternative marketing avenues for their milk handled less than 1 billion pounds of milk annually, and the majority of these handled less than 50 million pounds. These new groups of producers banded together for a variety of reasons.The type of marketing operations a dairy cooperative engages in on behalf of its members varies from cooperative to cooperative. Between 1992 and 2000, there was adjustment in the numbers of dairy cooperatives engaging in various marketing activities. In addition to entries and exits, some cooperatives altered the focus of their operations to adapt to changing market conditions, which put them into a different operational group.On the other hand, for those that manufactured commodity products on a large scale, the limited flexibility of a narrow product line probably left them more vulnerable to inventory losses arising from the volatile milk prices of the 1990s than a more diversified product line would have.Their shrinking numbers truly reflect the fewer-but-larger co-op trend and represent increasing horizontal, as well as vertical, coordination. An indication of their vitality is that none of the exiting diversified cooperatives dissolved or went out of operation.Indeed, by 2000, there were no diversified cooperatives that handled less than 50 million pounds of milk annually. Their large volumes, wide product mixes and geographical reach position them to be suppliers of choice to the large, national food companies.The specialty cheese cooperatives must compete with other cheesemakers on the basis of the quality and uniqueness of their product, as they lack the size and scale to compete on price with the large commodity cheesemakers.Regardless of the intense market competition, fluid and branded-cheese cooperatives are the second most common type of dairy cooperative in the United States and represent an ever-so-slightly larger share of total dairy cooperative numbers in 2000 compared to 1992. Thirty percent of the fluid and branded-cheese cooperatives were formed since 1992, a faster pace than for the other operating types. All of these newly formed branded-cheese and fluid processing cooperatives were small.States have demonstrated an ability to successfully adapt to changing market conditions. While the trend appears to be away from operating small balancing plants, others are finding opportunity in capturing niche markets on a small scale. Alternatively, some cooperatives have eliminated their unprofitable manufacturing operations and focus their attention on gaining power at the bargaining table and providing services to their members.Finally, representing the majority of total cooperative milk volume, diversified cooperatives offer milk and dairy product buyers a full range of services while securing marketing margins and security for their members.Cooperative employees and a hard copy of a co-op newsletter are still ranked by members as their preferred sources for cooperative news, according to results of a survey funded by USDA Cooperative Services. Electronic communications rated dead last in order of preference, says David Trechter, associate professor of agriculture economics at the University of Wisconsin-River Falls.They appeal most to members who have served on the board or a co-op committee. The higher the level of education, the less important annual meetings tend to be with members. So annual meetings tend to be good for communicating with committed members, while newsletters are more important for reaching less-committed members.CCA: building better co-ops through communications The Cooperative Communicators Association (CCA) is an organization of 350 communications professionals dedicated to the concept that a strong communications program helps build stronger, more effective co-ops. The membership includes communicators from the full spectrum of cooperatives: agricultural, rural utility, housing, credit and consumer.Florida Citrus secured the services of three, health-conscious celebrities who donated their services for the campaign: super-model Cheryl Tiegs, actress Lauren Bacall and tennis ace Pete Sampras. In each PSA, these celebrity spokesmen stress the need for a healthy diet as a way to help reduce your odds of falling victim to cancer. In two of the spots, the only link to orange juice is a visual product placement.The American Cancer Society has also helped distribute the PSAs through its own channels. Health organizations quoted in the TV ads and PSAs are asked by Florida Citrus to review and approve them before they are aired.Harvard University study found that drinking a glass of grapefruit or orange juice daily can reduce the risk stroke by 25 percent. So the same day the study results were announced in the Journal of the American Medical Association, Florida Citrus launched an integrated media campaign, starting with a TV commercial produced in partnership with the American Heart Association. The next day, print ads began appearing in major newspapers; a week later, print ads were appearing in national magazines.This PR effort generated more than 400 broadcast airings, with an estimated audience of 125 million. This helped drive a 21 percent increase in consumer recognition of the stroke reduction benefits of orange juice.While claims of absolute safety can never be made, food industry representatives can communicate accurate, up-todate scientific information that emphasizes the years of exhaustive research that have gone in to developing biotechnology.Key to this role is selection of a chief executive officer or manager in whom the board has confidence to run the day-to-day operations of the cooperative business. The manager also has responsibility, with the board, to see that operations are run on a cooperative basis.Both aspects of the organization must be nourished to achieve organizational strength and ultimate business success. This makes management of cooperatives unique among other forms of businesses. It is one source of their distinctiveness and strength.As cooperatives become more complex organizations, both in size and scope of business activity, management must be sensitive to operating the cooperative for members? benefit and continuing to meet their needs. Sensitivity to those needs is a continuous challenge given the increasing diversity among cooperative members and the broader geography represented in many operations.Members must also be properly educated to understand their responsibilities to the organization. This includes proper capitalization as userowned businesses so that the stream of benefits continues to flow to them.Several recent changes in state cooperative laws attempt to allow for greater amounts of non-member business than is customary in cooperatives, or to allow co-op equity to be owned by non-members. These are onerous signs of deterioration in the legal foundations for cooperative enterprise in the country.Managing business operations in a difficult climate for farmers during the past several years has not been an easy task for cooperative management teams (directors and managers). Nevertheless, cooperative business volume in the United States increase