5722018498	PowerPulse MWD telemetry system establishes the benchmark for reliability and data transmission rates. Continuous mud wave telemetry achieves unprecedented data transmission rates of 6 to 16 bits per second.There is continuous monitoring of inclination and azimuth. Additional measurements include a downhole shock counter, an optional gamma ray sensor, an optional downhole weight on bit and torque sub, and an optional four-axis vibration measurement.Achieve increased signal-to-noise ratios with Schlumberger-patented, zero-gap modulators. The improved transmission quality minimizes the effects of drilling pumps, motors and other rig associated noise sources.A downlink function allows the MWD system to be configured downhole. Data frames are selected downhole to meet the changing needs of drilling and logging programs. The signal frequency is varied downhole so the tool works at all depths, regardless of mud type.SlimPulse is coupled with a new surface system of reduced hardware and manpower requirements to create the DD Direct acquisition system for the high-volume drilling market. This is an efficient and reliable D&I service requiring minimal installation time and footprint size. This expedites the time required to install directional services by removing unnecessary and cumbersome hardware at the wellsite.The combination of SlimPulse and AIM At-Bit Inclination Measurement tool gives you precise trajectory control in hole sizes as small as 5 7/8 in. Plus, you can maintain the retrievability of the SlimPulse MWD system. The service offers inclination data within one foot of the bit. This information is transmitted via electromagnetic telemetry to an integrated receiver sub positioned above the downhole motor.Schlumberger offers its clients the design, installation, and operation of interactive drilling centers focused on better drilling decisions. These Operation Support Centers (OSCs) are tailored to client requirements using proven and scalable components. Clients can remotely monitor, model, and control processes to optimize drilling, improve safety, and reduce risk.Osprey Reports represents a step change in performance for drilling, completion, and workover operations. With Osprey Reports comprehensive data model, you can track key performance indicators, compare actual results with the operational plan, and track and manage drilling costs. Osprey Reports allows you to make better use of your morning data-capture effort--transforming your ability to optimize operations and effectively use accumulated drilling knowledge in future projects.Complete daily reports in 30 minutes or less with key features that eliminate retyping previously entered data. Selective copy-forward eliminates the need to retype previously entered data, Customized pick lists reduce tedious data-entry tasks. Customize data-entry screens, unit systems, or hardcopy-ready reports to support local workflow needs. Required data items are highlighted in the user interface. The wellbore schematic diagram links with well data entry screens for immediate quality control.Your engineering team can easily chart drilling progress relative to the operational plan, track time and costs, manage QHSE incidents, and perform additional analyses to optimize drilling operations. You can link a comprehensive Authorization For Expenditure (AFE) to multiple drilling projects to track costs of extensive drilling campaigns.Operators worldwide understand that lack of time and inefficient tools result in inadequate well planning. Redesigning a well in progress will often result in a poor plan because of late notice and insufficient time to work on the problems. Often, risk analysis is based on drilling history, which can mask serious risks in your current project. Inconsistent risk assessment processes fail to identify the primary cause of costly drilling problems: stuck pipe, kicks, and losses. These problems lead to significant nonproductive time (NPT) and cost overruns. At the same time, E&P companies face growing pressure to reduce drilling costs, while fewer engineers are drilling increasingly difficult wells.Using this breakthrough technology, engineers throughout your organization will better understand and manage risks, deliver more accurate cost estimates, reduce NPT, and avoid costly drilling problems.The Osprey Risk prediction model is the first E&P software application that incorporates earth-property data to estimate drilling risk and cost. You can rapidly test well design concepts and easily evaluate various cost estimates, taking into consideration trade-offs to balance rate of penetration versus stuck pipe and kicks. Results of Monte Carlo simulation for probabilistic analysis show the full range of possible time and costs, providing you with a better understanding of your schedule risk and financial exposure. By automatically assigning time and cost to all phases of the well operation, the Osprey Risk model provides accurate estimates for budgetary purposes with greater consistency, reducing the time your engineers spend on cost estimation.Automatically created reports highlight trouble zones and indicate the severity of potentially high-impact risks. With this information, drilling engineers can focus their time on mitigating critical risks. Additional reports present detailed engineering results, including an editable operational activity plan that can be used to benchmark rig activities or for technical limit exercises.The well-on-a-page summary and well-engineering montage can be used for peer reviews or as drilling roadmaps. The probabilistic authorization for expenditure (AFE) makes it easy to create the required documentation for internal approval and project sanctioning. The drilling program can be created with summary charts, tables, and text, dramatically improving the efficiency and productivity of your engineers.Petrel seismic-to-simulation software offers collaborative visualization on the desktop, with modules for well path design and for quickly estimating the cost, time, and risk of proposed wells and sharing these results with the Osprey Risk application.Osprey Reports well operations reporting system uses shared operational plans, well design elements, and predicted risks for benchmarking rig activities and alerting wellsite teams to elevated risk levels.DrillDB operations performance analysis system provides the plan used for comparing actual performance and updating the equipment and performance used as the design basis within the Osprey Risk model.A unique intelligent rig-state-detection engine enables the user to accurately analyze present or postdrilling performance. Drilling performance information can be displayed in pie or bar charts, and drilling data can be assessed continuously and analyzed with the help of torque-and-drag or hydraulics models.PERFORM Toolkit software also has the unique ability to display, on the same log, synchronized time and depth data combined with a precise graphic representation of the BHA. This BHA can be built with the software or imported from other programs. Users can monitor and review any event that occurs during the drilling process and can capture events for future reference by entering comments in time or depth log risk tracks.In developing PERFORM Toolkit software, Schlumberger tapped into its years of experience with the PERFORM process and its No Drilling Surprises expertise. The result is a software package that will help drilling experts make the best use of vast amounts of real-time or recorded drilling data.The PERFORMView real-time drilling analyzer allows viewing depth- and time-based drilling and logging data in both two and three dimensions. Any event that occurs during the drilling process can be monitored and reviewed, and simple statistical analysis and data investigation can be performed.PERFORMView displays can be customized using filters suited to the application. This filtering allows rapid and accurate decision making because it shows only critical data. The software can be used to analyze either real-time or postdrilling data. Hydraulics and torque-and-drag analysis outputs of the PERFORM Toolkit software package can be viewed in real time.PERFORMView software can display drilling performance information either on crossplots or in pie or bar charts and show synchronized time and depth data combined with a precise graphic representation of the BHA, all on the same log. A lithology column with various caliper data can be displayed in the BHA track when EcoScope data is available.Advanced wellsite connectivity and remote control software enable Schlumberger Operation Support Center (OSC) personnel to remotely manage Schlumberger wellsite services. This remote management includes control of most operations for directional drilling (DD), measurement while drilling (MWD), and logging-while drilling (LWD). As a result, there are fewer personnel at the wellsite, which cuts transportation and accommodation costs and reduces health, safety, and environmental (HSE) risks.Schlumberger took the occasion of February's SPE/IADC conference in Amsterdam to formally unveil its much-anticipated Scope system, hailed by the company as the next generation of logging while drilling tools. US Editor Rick von Flatern takes a look at this latest LWD offering with an eye on what has come before.For more than 20 years, logging while drilling (LWD) technology has been making constant gains in its quest to deliver critical formation data even as the well bore is being drilled. For operators and geophysicists the attraction of the technology is a widely agreed upon principle that the fresher the well bore the better the data.With their origins in simple measurement while drilling (MWD) tools that were aimed primarily at monitoring well path trajectory, LWD tools have evolved to the point they are able to deliver formation evaluation logs of sufficient detail and accuracy to be used in c