5722018456	In a paper entitled, "Virtual community and computer-mediated communication: Opportunities for people with disabilities," (1996), Cherie Bowers points out that access to the Internet is not realistic for everyone, especially since many disabled individuals have relatively low incomes, rely largely on government subsidies, and cannot afford the expense of going online.  Jim Tobias, Editor of the "Telecommunications" issue of Technology and Disability (1994) agrees.  He writes, "...the convergence of information processing and communication holds both promises and risks for people with disabilities--promises because the ability to substitute 'brain' for 'brawn' opens up greater prospects for complete integration than ever before, risks because the failure to guarantee full, built-in accessibility will make all the new telecommunication technology just another barrier."Floyd point out, "These findings imply that relationships that begin online rarely stay there."  For individuals who were once excited by online communication, those who are unable to sustain relationships off-line may feel a sense of disappointment, isolation, alienation from others, and loss in self-esteem (Bowers, 1996).Finally, others worry that individuals with disabilities may eventually limit their communication to online communication where they feel safe.  Some worry that individuals may only communicate amongst peers who understand them, such as in disability-related newsgroups.  Stephen Turkle, having concerns about forming relationships in virtual communities, worries that individual users of the Internet are not always able to transfer the information and support they receive back to their physical communities (Bowers, 1996).  And still others question whether individuals may eventually come to feel even more isolated than before due to the often hostile, nonsocial, and impersonal nature of the Internet.The most recent analysis of pedagogy and computer-mediated communication can be found in a collection of articles in Communication and Cyberspace (1996) in which Stephanie Gibson puts forward an important call for the use of hypertext in the classroom. She argues that the use of CMC provides democracy to the classroom for the student to follow his or her own selected paths to knowledge. "Traditional classroom relationships are altered because the teacher no longer has control over who will read what texts, when, or in how much depth."While her argument rings true, the professor still sets the agenda of what can be provided as easily accessible materials by the professor's reading list or computer page. It is far more likely that the student will follow the reading schedule established by the teacher -- be it in the library  or online.Still, other studies support Gibson's analysis. In both work and leisure, McClintock argues that people will increasingly find the need to learn new forms of information and communication. Students must learn to organize and use information, to create new knowledge, both personal and public. Hence, an education for the 21st century must provide people with mastery of the intellectual and technical skills necessary to participate to their full potential.In a separate article, McClintock notes that educational computers can provide asynchronous support for both forms of synchronized classroom interaction, recitation and discussion. Drill and practice systems allow students to  benefit from systematic recitation without having to be synchronized in space and time with their teachers or their peers. These programs allow each student to work at his or her own pace and, in a properly networked environment, at a time and place of his or her choosing.Most analysis of computers and teaching does not address the use of computers for teaching journalism in college. The Poynter Institute provides excellent background materials for teaching specific elements of computerized journalism, but there is no systematic research on the pedogogy of teaching computer-assisted reporting. A variety of studies deals with computer science programming in the classroom, and the uses of computers in specific areas of studies. Reading, phonics and science are the most-often studied components of computers and education in the classroom.Lee and Fleming address the problems of instituting a computer program forjournalism in which cost of equipment, lack of qualified faculty, and maintenance of equipment are the top reasons that few journalism curricula have included computer-assisted reporting.Most of the other questions followed a similar pattern when it came to lectures, knowledge of the subject matter, and recognizing when students failed to understand the subjects presented. The instructor scored slightly higher on questions about accessibility and caring about the students' progress.A final question asked the students to rank the effectiveness of the instructor:"Compared to other instructors you have had, how effective has the instructor been in the course?" Eight rated the instructor as one ofthe most effective (top 10 percent). Two rated the professor in the top 30 percent. Two rated the instructor as about average.During my classes, I attempt to portray the computer as a machine that has no knowledge. It is a device to use much like an automobile. The object of the exercise is to get from one place to another. That should be pretty simple. But there are a few catches. You do have to know how to start the bloody thing, put it in gear, the rules of the road, and how to avoid penalties such as traffic tickets. So you may need some driver's education.My task was to make the computer seem like a useful device rather than a daunting test of wills between user and machine. Because the course was offered in the summer, the classes met five hours a week for six weeks. At times, the course became rushed in an effort to cover a vast amount of material. Still, many students found what was covered useful. "I certainly didn't know anything about listservs. Now I belong to seven.," writes Timothy Gardner.  "I trash about 90 percent of the messages but the rest of them either provide me with ideas or webpages where I can get ideas. And coming up with ideas for stories has always been the hardest part of journalism for me."Susan Whitacker complains that the course needs to allow more time to students to use skills learned in the class.  "I think it would have been better to stretch such a course out over a longer period of time and deepen and refine the kinds of research asked of students," she writes. "Students need more practice in using the skills taught in in-class tests as well as take-home assignments."It was interesting that students wanted to know more background about increasingly outdated computer skills such as Jughead, Veronica, file transfer protocol and gopher. Web page design seemed in great demand -- a skill I lack except in the basic use of HTML and editing systems."I wish I had more time to use these skills in a classroom setting," writes Doria Lavignano. "I wish we would have spent more time on HTML. It seems like the worst thing a journalist can be these days is technically illiterate. I hope to work on an online publication out of grad school--it's an area that interests me--and I think it's where I will find the most opportunity."A newsgroup for the class faltered, primarily because it would not allow users from America Online or other non-NYU servers to adequately access the group. With baseline data now available, the department plans to establish guidelines of what computer skills students should have upon graduation. In addition, the department is considering a formal, three-course concentration in digital journalism.This course will deal with computer-assisted reporting, or "CAR."CAR entails using electronic tools to research, report and produce the news.While CAR is grounded in traditional journalistic principles such as concise narrative, solid reporting and clear analysis, we also will explore journalism's new forms and structures.You must have completed at least two news production courses in either writing or broadcasting. Experience with computers is useful, but this course will show you how to use a computer for more than word processing and reading e-mail. You must have an ACF account, and a modem. An Internet provider at home will be useful. If you do not meet these requirements, you may have trouble with the class.You will be graded on weekly journals, writing and a final examination. You will be required to keep a journal throughout the semester. Entries will be made once every week and be 500 words and e-mailed to me at harperc@is.nyu.edu The entries should include a description of work done over the previous week, impressions about the course, and impressions about other online journalism efforts. A final examination will be given on the various areas studied during the course.In the cosmopolitan environment of New York, you will be developing sources, interviewing experts and producing stories on international topics. After choosing a country in which to specialize, you will be writing on a range of diplomatic, cultural and economic issues.In class, we will follow international news developments, analyze the coverage and study how reporters in the field and their news desks back at home operate. For part of the class, we will use what's called the "case study" method. A separate explanation about the method follows this syllabus.International crises have dominated media coverage since the end of the Cold War. What was a bipolar world is still undergoing a period of transition, and coverage of international news has also undergone profound changes. Live television coverage of international events has become routine, forcing print media to change their ways of staffing and analyzing the flow of world news. As new nations were born and others collapsed into anarchy, crises arose that demanded massiv