5722018473	Office during normal working hours, and from the Communications Center in off-hours. For non-US citizens, the Department of Energy requires that certain information be collected on the visitor, which includes copying the visitor's passport and US visa in order to verify legal status in the US.PPD head Jim Strait is pleased with the focus on safety. "We asked people if there were conditions that they felt were unsafe," he said. "One employee told us 'whenever we see something unsafe, we change it to make it safe.'"International Folk Dancing meets every Thursday in the Kuhn Barn. Dancing begins at 7:30 p.m. with teaching earlier in the evening and request dancing later on. Newcomers are always welcome. Two special workshops with expert teachers are planned: April 21 - Dennis Boxell will teach classic Balkan dances, and May 12 - Daniela Ivanova will teach dances from Bulgaria to accordion music by Angel Nazlamov.Landry uses Einstein's own words to portray the physicist's scientific work, philosophical ideas and personal idiosyncrasies. Following the performance, Landry takes questions as Einstein, then removes his extensive makeup to answer questions about the play.The total number of protons delivered to the MiniBooNE target over its two and a half years of operation reached 5 x 1020. The Booster Neutrino Beam continues to operate well and will deliver many more protons by the time of the fall shutdown.Important physics results are expected from MiniBooNE late this year, using the data sample collected up to this year's shutdown. They will be able to check the evidence from the LSND experiment of a neutrino oscillation that would require a complete rethinking of neutrino physics.Another event in the last week was the DOE review of Tevatron. They gave the laboratory high marks for managing operations of the experimental program over the last year, especially for accelerator performance. They also said that the future goals for the rest of Run II and for the neutrino program represented a real challenge, particularly within the tight budgets that are now foreseen.High-Energy Physics: Exit America? by Charles Seife Budget cuts and cancellations threaten to end U.S. exploration of the particle frontier Monday, 7 February, was a grim day for the Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory (Fermilab). "You wake up, you go to a presentation, and you find out you're dead," says Fermilab physicist Joel Butler. Butler is co-spokesperson of an experiment known as BTeV--a multimillion-dollar project that would allow scientists to study the properties of the bottom quark. But that Monday, when the new Secretary of Energy Samuel Bodman took to the podium to announce the department's budget request for 2006, BTeV scientists were horrified to discover that their project had been canceled.Tuesday, April 5, at Kuhn Barn. Anyone interested is invited to this party to join in the appreciation of things Scottish and to try out the country's traditional social dancing. The celebration will offer some traditional foods, as well as an exhibit of books and materials on Scottish history, heritage and tartans.FESS Dave Nevin, who retired on May 13. Kuchler does not plan to make any major changes, but will meet with each Division and Section head in the coming weeks to see what FESS can do to make things run more smoothly.FESS services touch every part of the laboratory and are directly related to the fulfillment of Fermilab's mission.  But FESS's primary commitment is to the Fermilab customer.  "We want to provide the very best customer service for all of the functions that FESS provides," said Kuchler.Beyond serving his Fermilab customers, Kuchler is also working to find a suitable location for the International Linear Collider in northeast Illinois.  "We have a very competent team in FESS that is working to understand the geologic feasibility of the area," Kuchler said.  "I look forward to this challenge.""A key goal of the new Web site is to communicate the excitement and energy surrounding the science we do at the Lab," said Katherine Bellevin of the SLAC Communications Group. "This meant creating new content and imagery, as well as organizing existing pages around the various audiences that use the Web site. This first phase is just the beginning of a Lab-wide effort to integrate and organize our Web site content."The new site also incorporates updated versions for many of the public information and visitors pages. Additional content and pages will be created and existing content will be folded into the new site in the coming months.A spending committee of the U.S. House of Representatives has restored many of the cuts proposed by President George W. Bush to the Department of Energy's (DOE's) 2006 science budget, including those in its high-energy and nuclear physics programs. But that ray of sunshine was quickly clouded over by an agency request for scientists to evaluate the consequences of shutting down yet another key accelerator.The feedback from the committee conducting the annual program review last week was extremely positive. The committee congratulated the laboratory for our outstanding record of achievement in accelerator performance, in experimental and theoretical research, in preparing for LHC physics, and in astrophysics projects. They also gave high marks to the laboratory's plan for the future, as presented by Pier Oddone.The status and physics prospects for Run II were rated highly both in the recent program review and in the Tevatron operations review held two months ago. The impressive physics results shown to the Program Review were based on integrated luminosity of about 0.3-0.4 fb-1 delivered to each experiment. This represents about a 5% sample of the data sample that will be available by the end of Run II.On Wednesday last week, Robin Staffin talked here about the new charge for the HEPAP subpanel P5. He is asking P5 to look at what time the significant resources now invested in the operations of the Tevatron and PEP-II would have a greater impact if they were redirected to new opportunities.The current plan for Run II, developed two years ago, calls for the end of operations at the end of  FY 2009. The accelerator performance has followed the design plan over the last two years, and the detectors are running more efficiently than ever. The most exciting physics opportunities anywhere in particle physics right now are at the Tevatron. All of these facts will make a very strong  case to P5 that Run II should continue on the current plan."One thing that is recurrent in world class scientific research is change," Dorfan said. "Recognizing new science goals and discovery opportunities and adapting rapidly to exploit them efficiently, cost effectively and safely is the mark of a great laboratory. Thanks to the support of the Department of Energy's Office of Science and Stanford University, SLAC is ideally placed to make important breakthroughs over a wide spectrum of discovery in photon science and particle and particle astrophysics."These fields are evolving rapidly and we are remodeling the management structure to mobilize SLAC's exceptional staff to better serve its large user community. The new structure is adapted to allow them to get on with what they do best--make major discoveries."Dr. Robert Kaufmann of the Center for Energy & Environmental Studies at Boston University will confront some disturbing answers to questions about oil consumption that American consumers would probably rather not ask.These cosmic shortcuts, which link one point in the Universe to another, are favoured by science fiction writers as a means both of explaining time travel and of circumventing the limitations imposed by the speed of light.Jean Guyer, of Laboratory Services/Recreation Office and the event's organizer, said the cloudy day had a silver lining. "If the sun had come out, it might have been pretty humid," Guyer said. Employees walked, ran, or biked around the ring with friends and coworkers, stopping every mile or so to participate in three stations:  "Fish for a Duck," where employees snared a rubber duckie to win a whoopee cushion or an exploding foam ice cream cone; "Hawaiian Hula Hoop," where participants hula hooped or did a quick hula dance to win a kazoo; and "Funky Feet Walk," where contestants raced around cones wearing oversized blue foam feet to win a yo-yo.Fermilab Associate Director for Accelerators Steve Holmes posed the big questions immediately about accelerator R&D for the proposed International Linear Collider. "Is this thing going to work?" Holmes said, introducing his talk on Monday to the EPP 2010 panel. "And what is it going to take to get us there?"Holmes told the panel that, driven by the physics goals, the luminosity goals for the ILC are very aggressive and offer significant risk, but the goal of the accelerator R&D program is to reduce that risk. He added that the energy of the beam is not the greatest risk to ILC.The difficulty, Holmes explained in tracing the path of the beam, is that while luminosity is directly proportional to beam power, it is inversely proportional to the vertical size of the beam. The beam densities produced at the injection system must be preserved in the Linac, then maintained in the collisions at the Interaction Region. Holmes described a "huge effort to get the vertical beam size down."The large number of recent SPAM messages in German has been traced to the Sober virus, which uses an infected address book to send email of a political nature. The Fermilab Email Administrators are working on properly tagging these messages as SPAM.The Fermilab CD/CSS/CSI Email Team recently made this new tool available to help combat spam. It allows the Fermilab user community to report mis-classified spam emails and uses that information to "train" the spam filtering machines.A form is now available for reporting spam email that was not tagged as spam, as well as non-spam email 