5722018480	The program is open both to academics and professionals. The academic year in Russia consists of two semesters, generally beginning the first week of September and the first week of February. Affiliations are available at a wide range of Russian academic institutions, but grantees are particularly encouraged to consider placement in the regions (i.e., not Moscow or St. Petersburg) where American scholars and teachers will typically find a more supportive, enthusiastic reception. Recent successful affiliations have been at institutions in Barnaul, Dubna, Ekaterinburg, Kaliningrad, Kazan, Nizhni Novgorod, Novgorod, Novosibirsk, Petrozavodsk, Pskov, Piatigorsk, Rostov-on-the-Don, Saratov, Tomsk, Tula, Vologda, Volgograd, Voronezh, and Ulan Ude, among others. Staff at the Moscow Fulbright Office will do everything possible to facilitate placement requests based on prior academic contacts, if available, between grantees and possible host institutions. English language schooling for dependent children is located in Moscow and St. Petersburg. Information on current activities and grantees can be found at www.fulbright.ru.Academic year is from September 2007 through June 2008. Second semester begins February. A few schools, most notably Kyiv-Mohyla Academy, National University "Ostroh Academy" and Petro Mohyla Mykolayiv State University are on the trimester system beginning in August and ending in July. Applications are welcome in all fields, but preference will be given to the humanities and social sciences, especially subjects related to the United States and to projects assisting in educational, economic, political and legal reform in Ukraine. Affiliations are possible with a variety of academic institutions, including older established state universities and new private and public institutions. Opportunities exist for collaboration with public officials. Although placement in Kyiv is possible, the Ukrainian Ministry of Education and the U.S. Embassy in Kyiv encourage scholars to consider placements in other cities such as Cherkasy, Chernivtsi, Donetsk, Dnipropetrovsk, Ivano-Frankivsk, Kharkiv, Kherson, Kirovohrad, L'viv, Lutsk, Mykolayiv, Odessa, Rivne, Simferopol, Uzhhorod and Zaporizhzhia. Double affiliations may be possible. Lectures are in English. CIES staff will send, upon request, specific information about awards and university contacts. International English language schools (pre-K-12) are located in Kyiv only. Ukrainian schools with English language instruction exist in major cities.One lecturing award at the College of Europe for one semester of the 2007-08 academic year. Letter of invitation is not required. Commission will confer with the College concerning candidates. The academic year at the College is September 15 to July 15. Fluency in French would be appreciated, but it is not required. Preferred fields are political science, economics, public policy and administrative studies. A Ph.D. is required. Candidate should have several years of teaching experience and hold the rank of associate or full professor. However, depending on the qualifications of the candidate, assistant professors may also be considered. The courses are taught in the framework of a master's program in European studies to a very select group of graduate students from all European countries and North America. Housing and meals are provided by the College. Four awards for research in European Union Affairs or U.S.-EU relations: 2 to 5 months; tenable in any of the Member States of the EU. Candidates must provide a letter of invitation from the host institution in the EU. Candidates will need language proficiency for the country in which they will be located. Applicants for research awards should have at least several years of experience beyond the Ph.D. level. Professionals with relevant professional experience will also be considered. Generally, the quality of the applicant's proposal is more important than academic rank. Beginning dates for research awards may be flexible in individual cases, contingent upon the grantee's institutional affiliation. Academic years vary enormously in the member states of the EU. Preference will be given to projects requiring the grantee's presence in two member states of the EU.Fulbright in France offers 3-12 month opportunities for research scholars and lecturers in a wide range of fields. Two to five research awards of 3 to 6 months duration in any discipline. One award in French studies of 3 to 6 months duration. One award in multidisciplinary studies of 3 to 6 months duration. Three awards of up to 9 months duration with research institutions in the region of Aquitaine. Four awards of up to 12 months duration with research institutions in the region of Nord Pas de Calais. One award in medical sciences and engineering of up to 12 months duration with research institutions in the region of Alsace. Two one-semester Fulbright-Tocqueville Distinguished Chair in American Studies awards (see Fulbright Distinguished Chairs Program). Candidates interested in applying can visit the Franco-American Commission's Web site at www.fulbright-france.org. For more detailed information contact Amy Tondu, Ph.D., head of the American Section, at atondu@fulbright-france.org.Up to ten lecturing or lecturing/research awards, three research awards and five awards to practicing professionals. See also research opportunities under the Middle East, North Africa, South Asia Regional Research Program. Since fall 2002, American Fulbrighters have not been supported in Pakistan, though program managers are hopeful that scholars and professionals will be able to come in fall 2007 for one or two semesters. Neither scholars nor professionals will be permitted to bring dependents to Pakistan in 2007-08.Academic year runs from approximately September 2007 to June 2008. English is the language of instruction for all awards. Contact the executive director of the Fulbright Commission in Pakistan, Dr. Grace Clark, at forsting@aol.com or Mr. Mazhar Awan at mazhar@usefpakistan.org for general information on the Fulbright program in Pakistan.Document," then the document is currently protected, and you may proceed. If you instead see the option "Protect Document," select it. A dialogue box will appear. Choose "Forms" and click "OK." No password is needed."NCS has made it possible for me to work with three different cohorts of 40 families in Chad and to begin regular data collection in each of three different sites. My research has been enriched by the opportunities the NCS program has provided for exchange with other scholars."My participation in NCS has given me the unique opportunity to team up with an outstanding international and interdisciplinary network of professionals with a focus on global health and my intention is to continue to be an active participant in such a network.Ministry of Human Resource Development (HRD) in the Govt. of India where he was involved with policy issues relating to financing, governance, academic decentralization, restructuring, internationalization, testing services, use of technology in education, manpower development in IT and biotechnology.Along with his professional career, Mr. Agarwal is pursuing doctoral work focused on the growth of market forces in education. His areas research interest are: international students' mobility, labour markets for higher science and technology professionals, behavior of education services (particularly higher education) in the market place, leveraging technology in delivery of education and information services and systems for better governance.Among his primary responsibilities as Vice Minister is the Higher Education Development Project (HEDP), which includes the World Bank Project (Learning and Innovation Credit) to introduce planned interventions into the system of higher education in Yemen in the areas of Governance, Quality, and financial management and the Nuffic (Netherlands Organization for International Cooperation in Higher Education) project, both of which he helped to design and supervises.Dr. Al-Mottahar's area of interest includes innovation and change in higher education institutions, comparative higher education, program development and evaluation, accreditation, quality assurance and quality enhancement.This proposal deals mainly with the first theme of the New Century Scholars Program (NCS), which is the transition from elite to mass higher education system. It examines the challenges facing Arab Higher Education (AHE) as a result of moving from elite to mass system and its impact on equity and quality, and how the system should deal effectively with quantitative expansion. The emphasis is on examining current status of AHE, identifying challenges, threats, and opportunities, preparedness to cope effectively with transition from elite to mass system, gleaning lessons from international experience, and specifying the characteristics of the system needed to cope with mass education challenges.Analysis and proposed solutions to the transition to mass system requires researching the three other related themes, namely the choice of institutional models, creating the public-private mix of institutions, and benefiting from the advantages of the technological revolution. Although the researcher will concentrate on the individual research proposal, but he will contribute to the analysis of the group work on transition from elite to mass system, and through examining of international experience he will enrich the work of the other related themes on institutional models, public private mix, and technological revolution impact on higher education.The international exchange visit will facilitate the securing the needed literature, creating contact with colleagues in the host institutions, writing and revising the study, and getting contact and feedback with the NCS distinguished leader.Given his interest in education as an institution, over the pa