5722018441	MUSE has begun the process of disconnecting the electronic collection price from the individual print price for each journal.  While some new journal titles may be added for 2005, they will not affect the price of each collection in the way that the addition of new content has done in the past. If MUSE has a significant number of new high quality titles wishing to participate, MUSE will explore/consider the development of a new collection.Libraries do still have the option of subscribing on a title-by-title basis to any journal for which the publisher has opted to have MUSE sell single titles. They may subscribe to single titles at the rates set by the publishers in addition to holding a collection subscription. At this time MUSE does not have the functionality to provide individualized flex plans for a discounted price, but MUSE will continue to offer a consortium flex plan (at least 5 libraries, and at least 100 titles must be selected, and the final discount will be based on the total number of each).For the purposes of pricing, Project MUSE categorizes North American academic libraries into tiers based upon Carnegie Classification. This criterion was chosen because it represents, in essence, the level of research activity at an institution and its relation to the institution's mission. Carnegie Classification is a commonly-agreed upon typology, is determined by a respected third-party organization, and had widespread acceptance among MUSE subscribers as an acceptable categorization tool during pricing research. Because Canadian institutions are not classified by the Carnegie Foundation, these institutions have been "mapped" into the five pricing tiers based upon similar criteria related to research activity and educational mission.UNAIDS has five focus areas including: leadership and advocacy, strategic information and technical support, tracking monitoring and evaluation, civil society engagement and mobilization of resources.There have been steady improvements in the modelling methodology used by UNAIDS/WHO and partners, along with better data from country surveillance. These have led to lower global HIV/AIDS estimates, not just for the current year but also for past years, despite the continued expansion of the global epidemic. Current estimates therefore cannot be compared directly with estimates from previous years, nor with those that may be published subsequently.UNAIDS and WHO continue to work with countries, partner organizations and experts to improve data collection. These efforts will ensure that the best possible estimates are available to assist governments, non-governmental organizations and others in gauging the status of the epidemic and monitoring the effectiveness of prevention and care efforts.The reach, expertise and institutional resources of the business sector are vital for a broadened and strengthened AIDS response. Workplace programmes developed in full partnership with unions or workforce representatives can help ensure broad-based participation by workers as their involvement engenders ownership, less fear of discrimination, greater trust of prevention messages, and higher take-up of services such as testing and treatment.Economic impact of HIV By targeting predominantly young and middle-aged adults who are the mainstay of the economy and the principal support of their families, the epidemic destroys the very fabric of societies. Particularly in places where HIV prevalence is high, it hamstrings economic growth and makes the provision of social services more difficult. Read more...UN system staff and bureaucracies are often unfamiliar and uncomfortable with dealing with non-state actors. Despite recent changes most UN staff still view their primary working relationship to be with government.Current UN Reform processes have only had minimal involvement of civil society. For example, the recently launched report on UN System-Wide Coherence speaks little to the primary importance of the role of civil society with an emphasis of internal UN processes.Antiretroviral therapyARVs have proved very effective at treating people with AIDS. But they are not a cure. If treatment is discontinued the virus becomes active again, so a person on ARVs must take them for life. More...TuberculosisMore than one third of the world's population is infected with the TB bacillus. People with healthy immune systems keep the bacillus in check and do not develop active disease. But because HIV destroys the immune system, people living with the virus are at extremely high risk of developing tuberculosis. More...Stigma and discriminationTogether, stigma and discrimination constitute one of the greatest barriers to dealing effectively with the epidemic. They discourage governments from acknowledging or taking timely action against AIDS. They deter individuals from finding out about their HIV status. More...Halting and reversing the spread of AIDS by 2015 demands far greater access to HIV prevention, treatment, care and support than is currently available. Ultimately, it requires universal access to a comprehensive range of services. UNAIDS and its partners are working with countries to reach the goal of universal access for all those who need it by 2010. More...Economic impact of HIVBy targeting predominantly young and middle-aged adults who are the mainstay of the economy and the principal support of their families, the epidemic destroys the very fabric of societies. Particularly in places where HIV prevalence is high, it hamstrings economic growth and makes the provision of social services more difficult. More...HIV and securityAIDS and global insecurity co-exit in a vicious cycle. Civil and international conflicts help spread HIV as populations are destabilized, and armies move across new territories. At the same time, the epidemic contributes to national and international insecurity through high levels of HIV infection among military and peacekeeping personnel. More...Each day, 14,000 more people become newly infected with HIV. More than half of them are young people between the ages of 15 and 24. In many countries and communities, there is a refusal to even discuss AIDS, let alone admit that young people should be responsible for their choices and actions.More than 130 different youth groups from around the world participated the debates. The long term objectives of this project are to empower young people to build their capacities for participation and action, and to increase active collaboration between youth organizations from the North and the South.Women are leaders in many areas of the AIDS response but too often interventions are not adapted to their realities leaving them at greater risk of HIV infection and at a disadvantage when it comes to coping with AIDS.Men and boys and wider communities must be encouraged to fulfil their potential as positive forces for change in improving the situation of women and girls. Efforts to foster more equitable and respectful gender relations are essential.Education in schoolsYoung people in many parts of the world are denied sex and health education in schools because parents and other authorities fear it encourages early sexual activity. But there is compelling evidence from studies conducted around the world and in many different cultures that, in fact, sex education encourages responsibility. More...Education outside school settingsExperience shows that peer education, which involves training representatives among out-of-school youth to convey information, is one of the most effective strategies. More...The goal of this public awareness campaign is to improve the understanding of HIV and the issues that HIV positive people have to deal with, it also aims at reducing AIDS-related in the workplace and in promoting safer environments for people to disclose their status and access necessary services. The one-year campaign is a joint initiative of the Irish Department of Health and Children and the Department of Foreign Affairs.The first time Chinese TV star Wenli Jiang took part in a public HIV prevention and awareness raising event, in 2003, she was decidedly nervous. Standing on a temporary stage set up in the most popular shopping section in Beijing, she looked out at the shoppers, holding a sheaf of condoms in her hand.Expanded HIV prevention programmes targeting sexual transmission and transmission among injecting drug users could avert 28 million new HIV infections between 2005 and 2015. A new study, published in Sciencexpress, indicates that increased spending on HIV prevention would not only prevent more than half the new infections that would occur from 2005 to 2015, but would actually produce a net financial saving as future costs for treatment and care are averted.A. No, in fact I have always viewed doing nothing as not being an option. Using our global network to communicate HIV prevention messages is one of the most important things we can do to contribute to this cause. I would like to encourage other companies to play to their strengths and look at how they can contribute too. We all have a role to play.Q. This past World AIDS Day, after completing an enormously successful eighteen months as the Chair of the Global Media AIDS Initiative (GMAI) Leadership Committee, you turned the position over to Dali Mpofu. Kofi Annan sang your praises: "Bill Roedy has mobilized media companies around the world to make unprecedented commitments to HIV prevention through innovative campaigns and programming." Can you explain why prevention efforts are still so important?A. Prevention efforts are still important because the worldwide response to HIV and AIDS has not matched the scale of the disease. 40 million people are infected. Prevention is important because no one needs to contract HIV. Education can prevent infection. The UN believes that effective education programmes can significantly cut infection rates.I want the media and business to show glob