5722018437	Reiterating his support for the troop "surge" to Iraq announced recently by President Bush, McCain said on NBC's "Meet the Press" that U.S. policy had produced Iraqi turmoil so bad that, if no change were made, "within months we would see a total breakdown in Iraq." The result, he said, would be ethnic cleansing between rival religious groups in the capital on the scale of that in Srebrenica, where Serbian military forces slaughtered 8,000 Bosnian Muslims in 1995."We can't expect Americans to sit outside Baghdad or outside the borders and watch such a thing go on," McCain said.While he said he preferred a larger troop buildup than the new 21,500-person deployment proposed by Bush, McCain said the new U.S. military commander in Iraq, Lt. Gen. David H. Petraeus, had assured him that if Petraeus "needed more, he would receive them."The Senate Foreign Relations Committee is expected to take up resolutions on Iraq on Wednesday, some nonbinding and others that would cap the number of U.S. troops there or reduce future funding for American or Iraqi security forces.Sen. Joseph R. Biden Jr. (D-Del.), chairman of the committee and co-sponsor of a bipartisan, nonbinding resolution that would put senators on record as opposing Bush's plan, said votes on other approaches would not deliver a muddled message."There's an overwhelming . . . consensus that we should deescalate the war," he added during an appearance on "Fox News Sunday."Sen. Carl M. Levin (D-Mich.), chairman of the Armed Services Committee, said on the same program, "It will be a very powerful message if a bipartisan majority of the Congress say that they disagree with the increased military involvement in Iraq." He added that could only be a first step: "If the president does not take heed to that step, at that point, you then consider another step."Levin warned, however, "The worst thing we can do is to vote on something which is critical of the current policy and lose it, because if we lose that vote, the president will use the defeat of a resolution as support for his policy."Unlike Petraeus, Casey has been privately skeptical about the wisdom of deploying five new brigades now. He argued last year that the presence of U.S. troops was fostering an unhealthy Iraqi dependency on foreign assistance. After publicly embracing Bush's plan, however, Casey said that it could make Baghdad residents begin to feel safe in their neighborhoods by the end of the summer.McCain retorted yesterday: "It's taken us nearly four years to get to this desperate situation we're in today. So to think that within three or four months or a short period of time that we could retrieve the situation, I think, is just foolishness."McCain has previously sought to deny military promotions to officers whose work in Iraq displeased him, including several associated with policies that he said had led to the abuse of U.S. military detainees there. While not promising outright to oppose Casey's appointment, he said, "I have hard questions to ask him, and I'm very skeptical about it."Levin has said he is inclined to back Casey.Meanwhile, McCain faces opposition from some Republican lawmakers who disagree with his endorsement of the troop buildup.Among the members of the Foreign Relations Committee, according to Sen. Chuck Hagel (R-Neb.), "I don't believe there was one Republican senator who came forward with any kind of enthusiasm or any kind of strong support of the president's plan.""The party that I first voted for on top of a tank in the Mekong Delta in 1968 is not the party I see today," Hagel said on CBS's "Face the Nation" yesterday.As for the nonbinding resolution, McCain called it "basically a vote of no confidence in the men and women we are sending over there."McCain, whom polls have shown running neck and neck among potential voters with newly announced Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Rodham Clinton, said yesterday that the senator from New York would make a "serious president." He did not reiterate his February 2005 comment that she would make a "good president."BAGHDAD, Jan. 21 -- The armored sport-utility vehicles whisked into a government compound in the city of Karbala with speed and urgency, the way most Americans and foreign dignitaries travel along Iraq's treacherous roads these days.Iraqi guards at checkpoints waved them through Saturday afternoon because the men wore what appeared to be legitimate U.S. military uniforms and badges, and drove cars commonly used by foreigners, the provincial governor said.Once inside, however, the men unleashed one of the deadliest and most brazen attacks on U.S. forces in a secure area. Five American service members were killed in a hail of grenades and gunfire in a breach of security that Iraqi officials called unprecedented.The attack, which lasted roughly 20 minutes, came on a day when the United States lost at least 20 other troops, including a dozen in a helicopter crash, making it the third most lethal day for American forces in Iraq.Meanwhile, the military announced the arrival of 3,200 troops of the 82nd Airborne Division's 2nd Brigade Combat Team, the first unit to reach Baghdad as part of a 21,500-troop increase that the Bush administration hopes will restore order in the violent capital."Soldiers from the 82nd come to us ready to engage in a wide variety of operations in support of the Iraqi Baghdad Security Plan," Lt. Gen. Raymond T. Odierno, the second-ranking U.S. commander in Iraq, said in a statement. "The brigade adds operational flexibility that will assist in securing the population."U.S. military officials said Sunday that they could not discuss the attack in Karbala in detail because it remained under investigation. But they said the version of events provided by the governor's office was consistent with their preliminary findings.After arriving at the Provincial Joint Coordination Center in Karbala, 60 miles southwest of Baghdad, the attackers detonated sound bombs, Iraqi officials said. "They wanted to create a panic situation," said an aide to Karbala Gov. Akeel al-Khazaali, who described the events with the governor's permission but on condition of anonymity because he fears reprisals.The men then stormed into a room where Americans and Iraqis were making plans to ensure the safety of thousands of people expected to visit the holy city for an upcoming holiday."They didn't target anyone but the American soldiers," the governor's aide said.After the attack, the assailants returned to their vehicles and drove away. It was unclear how many people participated, and the men's identities and motive remained unclear, but the attack was particularly striking because of the resources and sophistication involved, Iraqi officials said.The men drove off toward the city of Babil, north of Karbala, where they shot at guards at a checkpoint, said Capt. Muthana Ahmad, a police spokesman. Vehicles later recovered contained three bodies and one injured individual. The U.S. military took possession of the vehicles, the spokesman said.Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki had a surprise for President Bush when they sat down with their aides in the Four Seasons Hotel in Amman, Jordan. Firing up a PowerPoint presentation, Maliki and his national security adviser proposed that U.S. troops withdraw to the outskirts of Baghdad and let Iraqis take over security in the strife-torn capital. Maliki said he did not want any more U.S. troops at all, just more authority.The president listened intently to the unexpected proposal at their Nov. 30 meeting, according to accounts from several administration officials. Bush seemed impressed that Maliki had taken the initiative, but it did not take him long to reject the idea.By the time Bush returned to Washington, the plan had already been picked through by his military commanders. At a meeting in the White House's Roosevelt Room, the president flatly told his advisers that the Maliki plan was not going to work. He had concluded that the Iraqis were not up to the task and that Baghdad would collapse into chaos, making a bad situation worse. And so the Americans would have to help them.From that early December meeting on, Bush was headed down a path that would result in his defying critics and the seeming message of the November elections by ordering 21,500 more U.S. troops to Iraq. A reconstruction of the administration's Iraq policy review, based on more than a dozen interviews with senior advisers, Bush associates, lawmakers and national security officials, reveals a president taking the lead in driving the process toward one more effort at victory -- despite doubts along the way from his own military commanders, lawmakers and the public at large.He never seriously considered beginning to withdraw U.S. forces, as urged by newly elected Democratic congressional leaders and the bipartisan Iraq Study Group. And he had grown skeptical of his own military commanders, who were telling him no more troops were needed.So Bush relied on his own judgment that the best answer was to try once again to snuff out the sectarian violence in Baghdad, even at the risk of putting U.S. soldiers into a crossfire between Sunni insurgents and Shiite militias. When his generals resisted sending more troops, he seemed irritated. When they finally agreed to go along with the plan, he doubled the number of troops they requested.It was a signature moment for a president who seems uninfluenced by the electorate on Iraq and headed for a showdown with the new Democratic Congress. Presented with an opportunity to pull back, Bush instead chose to extend and, in some ways, deepen his commitment, gambling that more time and a new plan will finally bring success to the troubled U.S. military mission."The guy who is most committed to winning and finding a way to win is the president. He always has been; he's the only reason we are still in this fight," said Frederick W. Kagan, a military historian at the American Enter