5722018482	Mr. Bush should really put his "activist judges" remarks to bed before someone reminds him that it was "activist judges" (in lesser courts and finally the Supreme Court) who made him president in 2000.That said, the American people may have reached the point of enough is enough already from a Party that has taken upon itself the right to keep me pregnant, tell me who I can't marry; has the right to tap my phone, read my emails, decide that I have no right to die...For a Party that decries Big Government, what it really believes in is BIG GOVERNMENT. The American people get it and they don't want any of it.As a conservative it is my view that Nichols article is off the mark.  The repubs are in trouble with the Republicans..forget the dems...they hated the repubs and Bush so much that the repubs could never win them over.  The congress is in trouble because of the lack of conservative principles practiced by those who promised to do so when elected.I actually agree with much you wrote, john. But I disagree with this..."whom the left has been trying to scare into staying home". I think many "values" voters are not scared, they are ticked off and waking up to the fact that their party is just as full of weirdoes and hypocrites as the Other Guys. Maybe I see different ads than you, but the ones I see from dems are not about fear, they are about corruption and incompetence.  Today I saw one ad from a repub with a little target over a small child, warning against voting for the "Extreme liberal", It was sick."Call me traditional, but I think it is still a little early to write a death notice for Republican prospects in Tuesday's elections. The polls and trends seem to favor the Democrats, but surveys of many of the key races remain find candidates of both parties stuck within margins of error, and so it seems to me that a measure of caution is appropriate before nailing shut the GOP's coffin."The Ford attack calls into question why hard working blacks in Tennessee should vote for a candidate who rarely even votes. The ad equates the Congressman's lack of voting with not understanding the soft bigotry that blacks have to deal with on a regular basis in their jobs. The ad shows that black voters have to work twice as hard to get ahead while Ford works half as hard and feels entitled to become a Senator.Bush usually has been an impressively slick salesman on the campaign trail. In 2004 there were times when he was scary because he was so good. So I wonder what his endorsement of Donny Rum was trying to sell and to whom. Has the level of delusion reached clinical tipping point?Back in the day, actual conservatives (as opposed to the lily-livered, spleeny, pseudo-intellectural reactionaries that are handed that moniker today) used to complain about deficit spending by Democrats in congress by saying that you couldn't run a business in the way that the government was being run, because you'd never survive.So if that's true, and Rummy were to be viewed as nothing more than the head of a large operating division of a major corporation, would someone who has squandered billions, cost thousands of "assets" (normal people call them the lives of human beings), lost the confidence of those he purports to lead and brought shame upon the self-same institution still have a job?When Edward Monks, a lawyer in Eugene, Oregon, studied the two commercial talk stations in his town (Eugene Register-Guard, 6/30/02), he found "80 hours per week, more than 4,000 hours per year, programmed for Republican and conservative talk shows, without a single second programmed for a Democratic or liberal perspective." Observing that Eugene (a generally progressive town) was "fairly representative," Monks concluded: "Political opinions expressed on talk radio are approaching the level of uniformity that would normally be achieved only in a totalitarian society."Perhaps it's also that the ideal neocon, being so far from a 'real' conservative, thus worst, that hsuB admin being so far from even being neocons, that the neocons are finally seeing what the hsub admin are-- neosans!  Which is hilarious as neocons are just as far from being true conservatives as the hsuB neosans; perhaps +/- 3% the corruption, incompetence and/or secretive perversions.I almost fell out of my chair last night when I heard the Pearle, after thinking it over, would not have invaded Iraq.  With all his pseudo-intellectualism and well breed education, he has finally come to the conclusion he was wrong.  What a revelation!    He helped convince the other morons Cheney and Ronald Dumsfeld it was a good idea and they sold it to the even a bigger dumbass Bush.As retribution for their folly, Adelman and Pearle should be allowed to see first hand the results of their handywork by being dropped off in Abu Grab after being announced to the detainees that they were the architects and primary motivators of the war.  That would bring some humility to their smirking faces.There is one redeeming feature to the ferocity of the neocons' convictions:  they were so sure they were right, they rushed straight away into implementing all their cherished beliefs.  And it has taken a mercifully short time for all to see how immature and destructive their worldview really is.How about one of the most likely (or deserving) war crimes candidate in recent American History: Henry Kissinger?  Obviously, his role in escalating the war in Cambodia, Laos, and Vietnam is forgotten or ignored- thus his articles can still shamefully be received positively in the most prominant newspapers.  Times haven't changed in the way American military/government fails to even count the obscene numbers of dead inhabitants of the lands bombed: from IndoChina the figures varied from 1-3.5 million, and today in Iraq the range is anywhere from 40,000-640,000. Yes, I must agree that the collective memory of America is piss-poor.  Though I would fault institutional doctrine rather than pointing fingers at various individuals.Ah yes.  Well it might not happen tomorrow but all it would take would be a misplanned vacation or a stop over in somewhere like Spain, a zealous Spanish magistrate (perhaps looking to establish his reputation) and, hey presto, an arrest warrant, an arrest and a nice SHOWY trial.Pinochet got away, but only just.  It won't be long before someone, somewhere takes a legal potshot at these guys.  They will have to live in some Green Zone in Washington for the rest of their Godforsakan lives.  Or risk being tried for 650,000 Iraqi war deaths.  Not to mention destruction, maiming.....How disgusting to see the mental explorations and theories of these cynical Beltway Warriors, having all had other priorities during their own real-world opportunities to go off and fight for their ideas, and how their mental constructs translate in the form of blood and death unleashed in the Middle East.But while it's sweet to see bigots hoist by their own petard, it doesn't erase the long-standing disgust some of us have felt at the spectacle of Clarence Thomas, Colin Powell, & Condi Rice assuring us what a great & free society we live in...Too bad that even after Katrina both parties are treating the issue of race as if it's radioactive...Norman Lear rails against global warming...then keeps a car collection?  Michael Moore rails against "war profiteering"...while he owns Halliburton stock?  Robert Kennedy Jr. bemoans the lack of funding for alternative energy...while blocking the Cape Wind wind farm project (which just "coincidentially" would besmudge the view from the Kennedy Compound).Revises federal provisions allowing the President to utilize the Armed Forces in connection with interference with federal and state law to allow the President to employ the Armed Forces and National Guard in federal service to restore public order in cases of natural disaster, epidemic or other public health emergency, terrorist attack or incident, or domestic violence. Requires the President to notify Congress within 14 days of the exercise of such authority. Authorizes the President, when exercising such authority, to direct the Secretary to provide supplies, services, and equipment to persons affected by the situation.On the bright side, the section just above this one (authorizing Emperor Bush to put down internal insurrections against the Empire with the National Guard) increases the amount of money you can get to rat out someone who may seem plausibly suspicious from $2,500 to a cool $10,000.  So there's your silver lining.There is very little in terms of the US national government these days that would correspond to "promotion of democracy". It is a power structure occupied and dedicated to serve wealthy elites who want to use it to further their agendas. "Democratic freedom" is a myth sold to the public to blind the public as to the actual effect of the national government on the people and the world outside of the US.  Washington, DC, is occupied territory. It's the American plutocracy vs. the world, in reality. The rich own the apparatus that makes law so there is probably no complete lawful remedy to the situation.I am half-tempted to sink, mercifully, into delusion, and pretend that the petit triomphe over the Republican half about to happen is deeply meaningful. They've had it coming since the impeachment of Clinton. However, with an incoming House Speaker who has already placed investigations, subpoenas, and impeachment, in her words, "completely off the table", along with her half of the government's already declared willful refusal to end the Iraq war soon, it is not clear what it is that any rational person would expect.Last March, the federal government set up a Web site to make public a vast archive of Iraqi documents captured during the war. The Bush administration did so under pressure from Congressional Republicans who said they hoped to "leverage the Internet" to find new evidence of the prewar dangers posed by Saddam H