5722018446	This award is given out by the Staff Senate twice a year, spring and fall, in coordination with the Human Resources award and recognition ceremonies. Last autumn's Outstanding Supervisor Award went to Barbara Gomperts, office administrator for the English Department. The Senators look forward to giving this award to another notable supervisor in March.Get a .25% APR discount simply for submitting your application online and transacting all business related to the application and disbursement of the loan remotely. Offer not valid on Apple Visa? Credit Cards. If you choose to transact this loan via our Call Center or a Branch Office you will not qualify for the rate discount.Prolonged exposure to harsh winter conditions can cause damage to the skin and underlying tissues, or frostbite. During the cold weather months, those who work outdoors and winter sports enthusiasts are particularly vulnerable.The elderly, smokers, caffeine drinkers and people with illnesses characterized by poor circulation, such as diabetes, hypothyroidism and arteriosclerosis (hardening of the arteries), are all prone to this type of injury. Alcohol and the use of certain drugs or medications can put a person at risk by hindering his or her ability to recognize the warning signs.Dressing properly is the best defense against problems from severe weather. Proper foot gear is just as important as a warm coat, hat and gloves. Extreme cold and wet clothes put exposed areas such as the feet and toes in jeopardy.Mail Services, and other smaller contracts. Chris will have responsibility for and authority to affect strategic policies and plans for all University Services areas. She will continue to serve as University Ombudsman for non-academic issues, co-chair the planning process for the next phase of housing, and serve on the Capital Outlay and Finance committees, Johnson Center Policy Board, AEMC, HR Benefits committee and various other committees.Prior to her time here Chris had her own management consulting business for several years, specializing in the design, construction, and development areas. According to Associate Vice President John Spaldo, "We are pleased Chris has accepted this position and look forward to the University Services programs growing and developing under her guidance."Forum is co-sponsored by the Center for Global Studies. In the past decade, interdisciplinary human rights programs have proliferated at colleges and universities throughout the world. The International Human Rights Education Consortium (IHREC) was formed in 2000 both to promote this trend and to provide a forum for human rights professionals. In order to do so, IHREC is convening a series of forums around the world with a view to promoting the institutionalization of human rights programming.Critics and audiences around the world have praised Leonard Slatkin for his imaginative programming and interpretations in a vast repertoire, particularly prominent in his years with the National Symphony. His tenure has included highly lauded European, Asian, and US tours; numerous national broadcasts; and intriguing themed festivals, among them Soundtracks and Journey to America, which have drawn national attention. Mr. Slatkin makes regular appearances with virtually all of the major international orchestras and opera companies.This workshop will provide an overview of Administrative Policy No. 2101, Travel Authorization and Reimbursement Policies as well as detailed information concerning processing travel authorizations before a trip and travel reimbursement requests at the conclusion of a trip. Procedures for purchasing airline/train tickets and hotel accommodations will also be covered. The workshop will also include a demonstration of the Travel Request System, the Mason web-based application for preparing authorizations and reimbursement requests.The Philip C. Jessup International Law Moot Court Competition is one of the largest and most prestigious moot court competitions in the world. The Jessup competition recently celebrated its 40-year anniversary and is cosponsored by the International Law Students Association and the American Society of International Law.For almost 20 years, technology has been one of the primary areas of academic focus at George Mason University. Along with public policy and the arts, technology has been an area deemed by the institution's leaders to be compatible with the needs and goals of the region and the nation, as well as of greatest use to students as they work toward achieving their own academic goals.George Mason's faculty has embraced this emphasis. Many faculty members dedicate their scholarly pursuits toward identifying ways in which technology can enhance learning in the classroom, while others direct their energies toward research and technology.The academic and overall campus environment at George Mason University is increasingly driven by technology. Technological innovation gives students more than interaction with computers; it provides more time for meaningful contact with peers, professors, and community professionals, enabling them to take a proactive role in their education.Meaningful research and teaching in today's educational institutions are increasingly dependent on the successful fusion of information and technology. However, while technology provides the tools, it is the human force in such endeavors--the vision, creativity, and ingenuity of scholars--that enables us to push the boundaries of knowledge and, ultimately, to use technology to enrich and improve the quality of life for present and future generations.Ultimately, TAC strives in a programmatic way to ensure that all students who graduate from George Mason have a strong conceptual understanding of technology and an ability to choose the most appropriate technology tools to solve complex problems in an increasingly technological world.The following are representative faculty members at George Mason University who are successfully combining research, teaching, and technology. They are just a few of the institution's 800 full-time scholars who are making significant contributions in areas as diverse as computational statistics, public policy, medicine, visual information technology, and physics. All owe their success in great part to partnerships between colleagues, student and teacher, education and business, and the public and private sectors. Many of these collaborations are forged by Mason faculty members themselves, fueled both by their own entrepreneurial spirit and by the contributions of the university's many supporters.The safety of the National Airspace is almost completely dependent upon technology and George Mason’s Air Transportation Lab, headed by George Donohue, Senior Research Professor within the School of Public Policy, is a major player when it comes to research in that arena. Through the lab’s membership in the Federal Aviation Administration’s national Center of Excellence program, graduate students have cutting-edge air transportation research opportunities, such as modeling the safety of high capacity airports with special attention to aircraft collisions and wake vortex interactions, or working on a new generation of computer simulation methods for capturing the dynamic behavior of large and complex networks. Students also attend meetings and conferences where breakthrough research is presented, side-by-side with distinguished researchers from other institutions as well as aviation industry and government representatives.Taking what Cindy Lont, professor of communication, calls a “partial-distance” course in COMM 655, students work together in teams throughout the semester on a project, but can “attend” lectures in their very own living room. The course is based around Video Modules, which are complete programs that air over GMU-TV, are for sale in the Student Technology Assistance and Resource Center, or can be viewed in the library. After watching the modules for content, students are then required to have educational discussions via WEB-CT, a class discussion group. Students work in small groups to complete a final visual project for the class using the theories presented. This course has won two Communicator Awards, the Best Take Award from the International Television Association in Washington, D.C., two Telly Awards, and a Video Excellence Award.Browse through the oddities of P.T. Barnum’s museum. Create a simulated utopian world. These are some of the assignments that Michael O’Malley, associate professor and creative director of the Center for History and New Media, has students complete. Using web-based historical simulation games, archives from the Library of Congress, and digitized primary documents, students interpret and explore the past by using technology of the future. In O’Malley’s “Magic Detection, and Illusion in the Turn of the Century America” course, students are taken through a web-based game in which they meet cloaked figures on the street, talk with knowledgeable bartenders, sneak peeks into a turn-of-the-century police station, and read dime novels. In addition, his students are required to create their own webpage and online journal. This course is designed to give students an extensive tutorial on how to read and analyze historical documents, and to look at the ways in which popular culture, music, politics, and law influenced each other.Learning through hands-on experience with sophisticated hardware and software tools is a critical component of education today. Art and Visual Technology students and alumni provide low-cost training, design, and development of innovative animation, multimedia and Internet-based products, applications, and services."Who Built America" is a scholarly but lively history of the United States from 1876 to 1914, when forces like immigration and industrialization combined to transform the nation. Based on a book by the same title, t