5722018504	Global climate change -- also referred to as the greenhouse effect -- has been the subject of social scientific research for a number of years. The question of how, when, and to what degree human-caused shifts in climate might affect natural and man-made systems is contentious. This debate has played itself out in policy circles, scientific circles, and in the public sphere. Topically, this is an exciting arena within which to examine issues involving the public's understanding of science.With this in mind, the journal Public Understanding of Science is calling for original manuscript submissions for a special issue to be published on the topic of global climate change. All approaches appropriate to the journal are welcome (see general journal information below). All submissions will be blind reviewed. Brief statements of intent are requested by March 1, 1999. Five copies of the submission (12,000 words max.) are due to the special issue office by June 15, 1999. Information identifying authors (including address, phone, e-mail) should appear only on a detachable top sheet.The journal Public Understanding of Science invites authors to submit for peer review articles on all aspects of the interrelationships between science (including technology and medicine) and the public.Pennsylvania Speech Communication Annual.  The Annual is dedicated to advancing our understanding of human communication.  Manuscripts should be original and should discuss instructional, theoretical, philosophical, or practical aspects of any area of communication.While articles authored by  Pennsylvanians or on Pennsylvania topics are especially welcome, manuscripts on all topics and from all regions are invited and will receive full consideration for publication.Communication Needs of Students At-Risk Commission for the 1999 NCA convention. Also, an address correction for submissions is listed below.  The Commission invites the submission of completed papers and proposals for program panels that advance the understanding of communication needs of students at risk. We are particularly interested in papers and panels which connect the NCA convention theme to the examination of theory, pedagogy, and practices dealing with the challenges, roles of communication professionals, solutions, models of instruction, and assessment processes.Prevention programs must be based on the actual needs of the relevant populations.  There is evidence of an interaction of comorbid mental health factors, such as alcohol/drug use and abuse with high risk sexual behaviors. Alcohol and drugs may provide a disinhibiting effect as an impetus to engage in unsafe behaviors, but a more complex conceptualization which includes mental health factors may be required to design effective prevention programs. The purpose of this RFA is to design interventions that address these multiple factors associated with high-risk behavior in order to prevent the spread of HIV/STDs.As the third decade of HIV/STD prevention research is being initiated, it is necessary to build prevention programs based on actual needs and motivations of at-risk populations in order to facilitate and stimulate their participation.  Prevention programs that focus on only one aspect of risk behaviors may not be as effective as multimodal, multifocused programs.  There is evidence that there is an interaction of comorbid mental health factors, such as alcohol/drug use and abuse with high- risk sexual behaviors in some populations.  For example, in a sample of homosexual men, the consistent use of non-injection drugs (e.g., amyl nitrite or amphetamines) rather than episodic use, does affect seroconversion.Alcohol and drugs may provide a disinhibiting effect as an impetus to engage in unsafe behaviors, but a more complex conceptualization which includes mental health factors may be required to design effective prevention programs.The purpose of this grant program is to expand access to, coordinate, restrain the cost of, and improve the quality of essential health care services, including preventive and emergency services, through the development of integrated health care delivery systems or networks in rural areas and regions. Funds are available for projects to support the direct delivery of health care and related services, to expand existing services, or to enhance health service delivery through education, promotion, and prevention programs. The emphasis is on the actual delivery of specific services rather than the development of organizational capabilities. Projects may be carried out by networks of the same providers (e.g. all hospitals) or more diversified networks.The administrative headquarters of the organization must be located in a rural county or in a rural census tract of an urban county, or an organization constituted exclusively to provide services to migrant and seasonal farmworkers in rural areas and supported under Section 330(g) of the Public Health Service Act. Organizations that provide services to migrant and seasonal farmworkers in rural areas and are supported under Section 330(g) of the Public Health Service Act are eligible regardless of the urban or rural location of the administrative headquarters.Funding preference may be given to applicant networks that include: (1) A majority of the health care providers serving in the area or region to be served by the network; (2) any Federally Qualified Health Centers, Rural Health Clinics, and local public health departments serving in the area or region; (3) outpatient mental health providers serving in the area or region; or (4) appropriate social service providers, such as agencies on aging, school systems, and providers under the women, infants, and children program (WIC), to improve access to and coordination of health care services.Particular emphasis is placed on individuals focusing on economics and finance in the manufacturing-based sector. Scholarships are not restricted to academic institution or to any geographic location, nor are they restricted solely to academic achievers or to those in financial need. Drive, desire, and determination to succeed are important criteria as well.Scholarships are awarded for one academic year. Applicants should write to the office and request an application by the deadline. If the request meets the foundation's preliminary criteria, an application package will be mailed.Support will not be given to organizations or for students majoring in accounting, information management systems, marketing, or hotel management or studying for careers in the public or private sector service, such as health care, banking, financial services, or consulting.INBA offers up to four $700 scholarships each year. The money can be used toward the cost of books, tuition or other expenses incurred while enrolled as a full-time student or to cover living expenses during an internship at a radio or television station serving an Illinois market.Lorde's public speeches.  If anyone on this list is in a position to help out with this request, either by making copies of tapes in hand or by forwarding this request to others who may have recordings, I'll cheerfully acknowledge the help with a note in publications using the recordings.  I'm especially hopeful of getting an audio or video recording of her speech at the Second Sex Conference ("The Master's Tools Will Never Dismantle the Master's House).  Her other speeches also interest me.And a request: Would you share the best arguments you've heard/used for the existence of a communication department in a liberal arts curriculum, as well as the best arguments you've heard/used for the viability of the major, beyond its popularity with students? I have a few of my own, but would like to have more on the tip of my tongue in faculty meetings and conversations (hopefully without sounding too hostile or defensive!). Thanks.In a sensible society, we'd say that having educated people was a social benefit at least as important as having the garbage picked up, and society would pay for it.  There's no tuition in most European countries.  Hell, there's no tuition for high school in North America.  Why not?I am just now reading the report from the Roper Starch survey-commissioned by NCA-on American communication behavior.  I am sure the results will be quite useful and interesting.  I just find it disappointing that NCA apparently did not think they could find any members that were capable of doing such research.Hopefully the response rate was high, NCA members and divisions were actively involved in this study's planning and in the interpretation of its results, and Roper was selected after a competive bidding process that was advertised to NCA members.  But if not, one important finding of this study may be that the NCA national office needs to do a better job communicating with its members and constituencies.Administrative Committee discussed and approved his proposal.  Daly wanted to assess public opinion about communication in order to have data available on the perceived importance of communication in everyday life, as well as providing information that might be used for public relations purposes.  The NCA Research Board, whose members were, at the time, Isa Engleberg, Chair, Brant Burleson and Anita Vangelisti, brainstormed for the better part of a day on topics for the survey and on sample question formats.  Daly also contributed to this discussion.  NCA Executive Director Jim Gaudino and I also met with staff from Roper Starch to discuss the project and to hear their suggestions for survey items (these suggestions were often based on including or avoiding topics that had been used in other Roper Starch polls). Staff at Roper Starch constructed the survey based on the material we submitted, and the Research Board members saw drafts of the survey and offered suggestions for improvement.  As the survey was honed through multiple drafts, Daly and Gaudino read the revised vers