5722018475	We have quite a number of programs under which industry is already making credible, verifiable claims in the marketplace.  These programs have several points in common.  They are voluntary and market-driven reflecting focused marketing opportunities where consumers are willing to pay for the information provided.  They do not cover all products to all consumers.  They operate under standardized program protocols and records requirements.  And, being market-driven, the incentives for compliance stem from increased sales, not the threat of punitive fines.Mr. Chairman, the Congress has tasked USDA with the responsibility of implementing a country of origin labeling program for a wide range of food products.  As I have already noted, we take this mandate seriously and will do our utmost to implement a program that meets the requirements of the law and minimizes the burdens on all concerned.  I will be happy to answer any questions from you or the other Committee Members.  Thank you.These facilities perform chemical, proximate, microbiological and bio-molecular testing of agricultural products to the agricultural community. The service includes adulteration testing of domestic and imported citrus products and Aflatoxin testing in peanut products, and other tree nuts.The Science and Technology laboratories are multi-disciplinary facilities capable of handling a variety of our customers' testing needs. Science and Technology laboratory programs are non-regulatory; the analyses and services are performed on a fee-for-service basis. The fee schedule includes sample analyses currently performed, but is not all inclusive. We welcome requests for additional laboratory services.Vegetable Programs' Commodity Procurement Branch announces in a Food Purchase Report that it plans to purchase particular food items. The Commodity Procurement Branch usually sends Invitations to Bid to all firms that have expressed an interest in doing business with USDA. Bidders must comply with Federal and USDA purchasing regulations and guidelines as the commodities must meet minimum specified requirements and be USDA-inspected to ensure quality.Schedule: Purchases for the National School Lunch Program traditionally start in July and continue on a weekly or bi-weekly basis through early March. Purchases for other Federal food assistance programs vary depending on funding.Purchases may take place annually, quarterly or more frequently depending on funds appropriated and recipient needs. Fruits and vegetables are usually purchased during the processing season for delivery throughout the year.Specifications may be in the form of a Federal specification, an agency document called a "Schedule," a Products Purchase Description, or a Commercial Item Description. The specification provides details on product formulations, manufacturing requirements, packaging, sampling and testing requirements, and quality assurance provisions.Supplement (if applicable) is generally used with a Federal specification. It sets forth additional specification requirements unique to the buyer, such as labeling and maximum fat-content provisions.Commodities and Services) and its amendments contain all the general contract clauses prescribed by the Federal Acquisition Regulations, including pre-award and post-award certifications, representations and warranties.Invitations are used in conjunction with the Announcement. It gives specific details on when bids are due for a particular purchase. Since most purchases are made for the product on a delivered basis, destination cities are listed and an estimated quantity to be purchased may be included. The format permits an offeror to bid a price to all destinations, but limit the quantity to be awarded by type and/or shipping/delivery period. Since firms are not bidding a quantity per line item, AMS may increase or decrease award quantity by destination based on market conditions, quantities offered and prices to be paid.Contracts and Food Purchase Reports: Contract award time for fruit and vegetable purchases may vary depending on the size of the purchase. The release is made at a specified time on the award day. A Food Purchase Report is issued to the public stating the quantity purchased, firms awarded and prices paid. Offerors, whose bids are accepted, are sent an electronic message detailing quantity awarded by destination, fixed price(s) to be paid and contract number assigned. An original signed notice of acceptance is also sent by mail. Information on shipment and invoicing is forwarded separately following notification of award.Contract Administration: Contractors must produce product according to specifications. Inspection of the product must be performed by AMS certification agents at the cost of the contractor. Waivers are limited to minor infractions not affecting product quality or shelf-life. Timely delivery is critical to school feeding programs. Firms delivering late may be prohibited from bidding on new Invitations to Bid, unless lateness is due to reasons beyond the contractor's control and a waiver has been granted by the Contracting Officer.Set Asides: AMS assists small businesses through set-aside programs and offers noncompetitive awards to small, disadvantaged firms (8a's) through an annual agreement with the Small Business Administration.Another source for procurement opportunities is the subcontracting arena. Contracts awarded to large businesses exceeding $500,000 require subcontracting plans that provide maximum practical participation of small, disadvantaged and women-owned businesses.We appreciate your firm's interest in supplying fruit and vegetables to the Department of Agriculture (USDA) for distribution to the National School Lunch, needy family, child nutrition and other domestic food assistance programs.All fruit and vegetable commodities provided for USDA purchase must be 100 percent domestic origin. The United States Department of Agriculture, Agricultural Marketing Service, Fruit and Vegetable Programs, Commodity Procurement Branch announcements and invitations define the domestic origin requirement. The Fruit and Vegetable Programs have the authority for verifying compliance of this requirement.If so desired, approved DOV program participants have the value added benefit of their company's name posted on the Commodity Procurement Website. To view a listing on this website, click on the Internet publication, Official Listing of Approved DOV Program Participants.It is thus reasonable to delay the effective date of this rule to allow existing inventories to clear through the channels of commerce and allow affected industry members to conform their operations to the requirements of this rule.Examples related to this exemption would be fish sticks, surimi, mussels in tomato sauce, seafood medley, coconut shrimp, soups, stews, chowders, sauces, pates, salmon that has been smoked, marinated fish fillets, canned tuna, canned sardines, canned salmon, crab salad, shrimp cocktail, gefilte fish, sushi, and breaded shrimp.Customs and Border Protection at the time the product enters the United States, through retail sale, provided it has not undergone a substantial transformation (as established by U.S. Customs and Border Protection) in the United States.Proposed rule annual costs to the U.S. economy in terms of reduced purchasing power resulting from a loss in productivity after a 10-year period of adjustment were estimated to range from $138 million to $596 million.Fish and shellfish covered commodities are exempt from COOL under this rule if they are an ingredient in a processed food item. An ingredient is a component either in part or in full of a finished retail food product. A processed food item is a retail item derived from fish or shellfish that has undergone specific processing resulting in a change in the character of the covered commodity, or that has been combined with at least one other covered commodity or other substantive food components (e.g., breading, tomato sauce), except that the addition of a component (such as water, salt, or sugar) that enhances or represents a further step in the preparation of the product for consumption, would not in itself result in a processed food item. Specific processing that results in a change in the character of the covered commodity includes cooking (e.g., frying, broiling, grilling, boiling, steaming, baking, roasting), curing (e.g., salt curing, sugar curing, drying), smoking (cold or hot), and restructuring (e.g., emulsifying and extruding, compressing into blocks and cutting into portions). Examples of fish and shellfish combined with different covered commodities or other substantive food components include scallops and shrimp in a seafood medley, breaded shrimp, breaded fish fillets, coated shrimp, and marinated fish fillets.Customs and Border Protection) outside of the United States; wild fish and shellfish--covered commodities must be derived exclusively from fish or shellfish either harvested in the waters of the United States or by a U.S. flagged vessel and processed in the United States or aboard a U.S. flagged vessel, and that has not undergone a substantial transformation (as established by U.S. Customs and Border Protection) outside of the United States.For imported covered commodities that have not subsequently been substantially transformed in the United States that are commingled with other imported and/or U.S. origin commodities, the declaration shall indicate the countries of origin for covered commodities in accordance with existing Federal legal requirements.The labeling requirements are consistent with other Federal legal requirements under which facilities are not required to separately track throughout the process, and ultimately into each individual retail package, the country source of the commodities that are found within each individual retail package. Rather, the declaration of the retail product can indicate the 