5722018440	I think a second factor that accounts for the great satisfaction reported -- and, of course, I have to say this is self-reported, so, you know, I can't say J.D. Powers said this, but there's a dearth of other information.Nonetheless, I think that one of the reasons that we've been so successful is that our operators and our passengers have a willingness to negotiate the experience, which is to say that the very concerns that Don Backe just mentioned have been made a matter of conversation between the prospective passenger and the prospective carrier, and they've worked it out, and quite apparently to everyone's satisfaction.There's a saying that there are only three rules to seamanship, okay: you keep the water on the outside, you keep the people on the inside, and you keep the boat off the land. Anything after that's gravy.Well, you can say the same thing about surveying the disabled population in vessels. You get them on the boat safely, you give them the best experience you can that's as close as possible to what everybody else gets, and you get them off the boat safely. Cucharacha, that's it. The rest of it's details.And the fact of it is we have been doing that. I think the major problem with that option, though, is this inevitable tendency to start getting down and saying, well, you know, we need to be more specific about this and say that a person needs to be put on in thus and such a way. Or, you know, the more specific those performance recommendations become, the more and more they begin to look like what? They begin to look like the C&T rules in option 2.In option 4, I think, basically, there is no magic number when it comes to passengers. The fact of it is, as Paul pointed out, we inherited this, obviously, to some extent arbitrary line from the Coast Guard and from their relatively recently overhauled framework of vessel classification.I have to say that, even though it was not purpose made for us, it does, I think, reflect some very valuable characteristics, some of which are economically driven and some of which are feasible or infeasible as a matter of physics.The fact of it is you are never going to find a 51-passenger cruise ship. It just is never going to happen because it's not economically feasible. You are probably not going to find a 60-passenger cruise ship. I mean, at some point, you know, there is a number there where economic feasibility makes it possible.And, likewise, I think that what this really points to is that probably more important than some sort of arbitrary number of passengers are the programmatic aspects of what the vessel does, all right, because that is also going to be interrelated with the physical thing.It's very unlikely that you're going to find a 5,000-person sailing ship. It's very unlikely you're going to find a 50-person cruise ship. Okay? So, as predictors go, you know, the size and the number of people have to be taken with the actual intended design of the vessel. And, once again, I think we did that pretty well.And what I'm going to bring to you today are three issues that I'd like you to consider. And I'll give you a brief background, and then I'll get out of here. The access from vessel to shore of 1 and 12, the exemptions for that or the exceptions for that are critical in our operation, and I'll come back and talk about that later. And, by the way, I do appreciate all the work that the Passenger Vessel Access committee did. It was really good work.Three is where we'll lead a little bit away from our Passenger Vessel Association. We feel that -- Casco Bay Island Transit District feels that the demarcation line is arbitrary at 150 passengers. There should be a subchapter, a super K or 600 passengers would be more realistic. Our little ferries, although they seem big to some, it's very difficult in the environment we operate in to meet all of the requirements.But let me just go over and tell you very quickly about our operation. I think one of the things I'm proudest of, the Casco Bay Island Transit District came into being in 1982 when the bankrupt Casco Bay Lines went into receivership. And, starting in 1984, we've had a record of every time we've dealt with the boat we've tried to improve its accessibility. We've never denied anybody transportation. We help everybody on and off the boat. We have two deckhands at the gangway any time we're operating.And, in 1985, we designed our first ferry, made sure it had handicapped accessible heads, an area for wheelchairs. In 1987, when the ferry terminal was built, we made sure it met all the requirements.In 1994, when we built our first passenger boat, we had an elevator between decks. So, a 399 passenger boat, we put an elevator between decks. In 1998, we retrofitted the Island Romance, a 65-foot boat. We couldn't put an elevator in it because the boat was too small, but we did put a lift in it. We call it a passenger lift. I'm not quite sure where that fits between a lulu and a platform lift, but we put a passenger lift in there.Our new boat that is currently under construction, the Aucocisco III, is replacing a 38-year-old ferry, the Island Holiday. And, once the Board and staff came to visit us, we submitted our plans and asked for and consequently made changes in the design of the boat to try and make it more accessible.So, I mean, our effort has been to try to make our operation accessible, and it's not for all altruistic reasons. I think it's the right thing to do, but I think it's good business sense. The thing I'm asking for today is that we keep everything realistic.Our tidal range is upwards of 14 feet. We have to operate the fixed piers. We cannot put floats in. They get blown away. Any time we have any kind of severe weather, anybody who is operating on all floats, they're hurting in Maine.In our case, we have fixed piers on the islands; we don't have steel vessels. We have a fixed facility in Portland. When we looked at designing the ferry terminal to put a ramp that would meet the 1 and 12 at the ferry terminal, it would start at the waterside and run through our entire building and be out as far as the parking lot. And I don't say that to be humorous. I'm just telling you, that's the kind of conditions we're having to deal with in Maine. And, again, what we try to do is we've designed and worked with the Maine Department of Transportation as they built the fixed docks and the down bay islands. It used to be that you just had a top level, and then a midrange or a low level.We've actually put in intermittent level ramps so that we can actually meet the standard about half the time. But the other half of the time, we won't be close to meeting the standard if it were required to remain at 1 and 12.The other exception is the so-called grandfathering. And, again, I want to tell you that operations like ours are going to try every way we can to continue to keep our boats accessible, but I'm concerned about whether we'd be required, if we did any major alterations to one of our smaller boats, that we'd have to put an elevator in it, as opposed to a passenger lift. From a stability standpoint and a space standpoint, it would be very difficult.We have a little concern about also our car ferry that we built in 1985 that we put accessible heads and areas for wheelchairs to be located and assistance to be able to sit by them. We did that back in 1985. That is a three-deck boat. It does not have an elevator to either the second or third deck. That would be a major concern if we did something of major alteration where we'd have to put an elevator on that boat. There's just no room on it right now. But I just want to make sure that I got that mentioned.The last, and probably the most difficult maybe for you, and I've been told this is the hardest nut to crack, is the idea of the arbitrariness of establishing a 150 passenger limit for small versus large.And it's difficult to think of the idea that only through the mastery of the naval architecture profession that you could actually cram 300 people on this boat. It's actually a small boat. So we would encourage you to at least consider that.I'll be glad to answer any questions. I have my comments that I'll pass along to staff and then we'll, of course, make our written comments. We do want to echo the statement made by Ed Welch that any extension of time, especially if we get 60 or 90 days beyond the current I guess it's March 28 deadline, would be helpful because we spent a lot of time trying to read the regulations. I can't pretend to tell you that I really understand them or the impact of them, but we would like to have a little more time to think through this. Questions?Anyway, Chesapeake Region Accessible Boating, we go by the acronym CRAB, and I am the big crab or the head crab. But my interest has been basically in sailing craft and basically in the smaller sailing craft. And my participation in this committee represented that interest, and my interjections came from that perspective. And I think you need to know that.Some things need to be said about sailing craft which are different about these large vessels. I'm delighted to go on a large princess-style ship because it is just hunky dory compared to the challenges we face with smaller craft and sailing craft.Sailing craft, in a way, are quite a challenge for people with mobility impairments particularly because balance is important. And, if you think about it, sailing craft are asked to do things that your power craft are not.For instance, one of the absolute facts of sailing craft, especially monohulls -- that's sailing -- single-hulled sailing watercraft -- is that they heel. So, in fact, if they're small, the minute you step on them, they're out of ADA. They're bobbing up and down at the dock. They're perilous just getting on them, especially if the day is rough. So the dynamics are very challenging to people with mobility impairments.I have -- my first 52 years of my life I was able-bodie