5722018445	Boundaries defining the processes involved in the management of the access and preservation of these materials are blurred. Practical experience gained through working with these publications at all levels will provide vital information for the preservation activities required. Essentially, providing continued access to these materials is conducting the preservation of them.Act now. The volatile nature of computer disks means time is running out to safeguard these publications against extinction. The purpose of this paper is to provide guidance based on our practical experience to those who wish to manage their collections on computer disk. Appropriate materials, identification, metadata, copyright, preservation and access considerations are dealt with in practical terms to help you understand how we manage our collections, and how this can be applied to your own materials.A few years ago the National Library recognised the need to address the preservation of the growing number of publications on computer disk in the collections. These items, which can be precisely labelled as physical format digital publications, presented many new issues and challenges which we are still in the process of analysing and researching. Our conclusions so far are based on a combination of experiments, experience and examination of international best practices. We are far from any ultimate solutions, if they exist at all, but now we feel we have learned enough to pass on some useful advice.Unfortunately it can be guaranteed that the computer disks in our collections will deteriorate and the hardware and software required to access the data on them will go out of date in a very short period compared to the life expectancy of paper publications. There is an added difficulty when our resources for dealing with these issues are obviously constrained. The result is that we may not be able to retrieve some information stored in electronic format in 5 years, and this will certainly be a problem in 50 years. So action needs to be taken sooner rather than later to reduce the impact of these changes.We also make the assurance that the Library has committed to pursue long-term solutions as well. Strategies for this are set out in the proposed research agenda [1], which has initially been sent to State Libraries, but we welcome contributions from anyone interested.It is important to know the various formats that exist in your collection because they will deteriorate differently and require different treatment. The various types and sizes will also have very specific software and hardware requirements for access.CD-R - (Compact Disc - Recordable) These discs are different in construction. They contain a dye layer that can be altered by light (ie. a laser). The dyes used vary considerably between disc brands and qualities. The use of dye which is designed to be altered means that these discs are less stable than CD-ROMs, however it is still most likely that the information on them is most endangered through hardware changes.Here are a few practical steps that you can take to manage the publications on disk you hold for the long term. They are based on the main threats to our disks, which are dealing with the deterioration of the media and inevitable changes in technology.It is essential to be able to identify electronic materials in your collection that require preservation by name/number and by type. Therefore it is essential to record a minimum amount of information about each publication in a database which should provide searching capabilities for material by format and system requirements, eg search for all 3.5 floppy disks for a Macintosh that require Homestack software.Usually this information can be found in a list on the packaging or in accompanying text. The amount of memory required might also be an issue for your library for the use of recent publications, but it is unlikely that future computers will have less memory available than is currently required for these publications, therefore it would not be considered essential metadata for preservation.These details need to be recorded in an appropriate system for searching. It may be possible to record these details in the catalogue record for example, but they need to be recorded in a standard way, such as using a standard vocabulary in a common field. This system must also enable detailed searching of both publications entirely in computer format as well as publications where the disk is only a part of the publication, for example a disk in the back of a text.However, the level of detail recorded for material for preservation is generally greater than their specifications, eg AACR2 use the term computer optical laser disk instead of CD-ROM or DVD-ROM, which is vital information for the use and preservation of these disks.At the National Library over two years ago we started with a search of the catalogue but the information recorded in catalogue records did not provide enough details for preservation purposes, especially for disks accompanying texts. The General Notes Area (MARC 538) of a catalogue record has been suggested as a possibly appropriate place for recording these kinds of details in the future. Meanwhile we are storing the metadata on a Microsoft Excel spreadsheet using a standard notation to ensure accurate search results. This has involved a detailed survey to record the h/w and s/w requirements of our existing collection, and introducing new procedures to work with new items as they are brought into the collection.Preservation of digital materials will be a time consuming and resource intensive operation for the foreseeable future, because it will include activities to be repeated every time technology changes. This is important to consider when deciding which of the materials you possess warrant such treatment.At the National Library we examined all these issues and policies have been developed on selection of physical format digital publications for acquisition and also on their selection for preservation [3].We have also proposed that information on physical format digital publications that are currently being collected be shared between the National and State Libraries. Working with the State Libraries in the longer term we need to have a collaborative selective approach at a national level rather than at the institution level.When you know what disks you have in your collection and which ones you want to preserve, you can take steps to avoid losing access to materials due to media deterioration and technological obsolescence.Floppy disks, with proper storage and handling, can last up to 10 years [4] but they may deteriorate much earlier and do not give you any indications when they are wearing out. It is necessary to act and make a backup before deterioration begins to occur or it may create an error in a critical sector of a disk and render it unusable. A small but growing number of publications on floppy disk have been found to have unrecoverable disk errors. It is basically too late to save these publications.Due to the copyright restrictions on publications we cannot copy these materials to a network drive, a logical option possibly from a technological point of view. Agreements we have for the use of these materials specifically state the use of a stand-alone computer. We are effectively creating a copy for use and backup of these publications only and not creating new versions.It would be possible to create back-ups on new floppy disks, ie refreshing, but it would be preferable to transfer the data to a media that will have a higher storage capacity and a greater life expectancy to reduce the frequency of back-up. CD-Rs are reported to have life expectancies over 70 years [5][6]&[7]. Making an allowance for inaccuracies in the manufacturers estimates, this is still an acceptable figure considering the expected length of use of the CD reading technology. They can also store roughly 400 times more data than a floppy disk.To access digital publications there are specific system requirements but we must be aware how they will be affected as technology changes. A program written for X may have difficulty running under Y for example. Software developers are not compelled to include backward compatibility.At the Library we have implemented a list of hardware and software maintained and it is now regularly examined and used to flag potential changes in technology and to signal that various types of hardware or software should not be disposed of while it is still required by the collections. Collection areas and Preservation Services maintain the list, and it is regularly presented to the Information Technology section for awareness of collection needs when planning changes of hardware and software in the Library.When a change in technology has been identified, various methods may need to be examined in addition to those already mentioned. Changes in operating systems and software for example are far more complex.Methods such as migration and emulation currently appear to be the practical options that may be employed. However there has been little practical experience to report of these methods being applied to publications.The migration method generally relies on conversion software to change data from one format to another. This also depends on having the source code if you want to migrate a type of software and also having the appropriate conversion software. This is a very complex solution if there is no such software available.Emulation involves software that emulates or pretends to be another type of software or operating system, eg a Commodore 64 emulator to be used on a PC. This may only be a short-term solution until the current operating system becomes out of date and we need an emulator for that as well. A series of emulators for emulators is likely to be unreliable.Our options to find migration, emulation or other solutions will rely on coope