5722018493	ITCs enhance teaching, learning and administrative operations by providing high quality Instructional Technology support to the faculty, staff and students. This includes hardware and software support of workstation operations of faculty, staff and of the computer laboratories and technology enhanced classrooms. ITCs also serve as technical advisors to the faculty and staff on software and hardware relevant to the specific mission of the Colleges they serve. They also assist in the on-going training of the faculty and staff.The University Web Committee has established design, content, and accessibility guidelines in order to give a professional and consistent look and feel to the University Web site. This site was designed to provide Web publishers or "Page Authors" with the necessary information and instructions for redesigning their Web pages according to these guidelines.Web templates have been developed to help simplify the redesign process. This site includes detailed instructions on how to modify these templates to fit your needs. If you decide not to use the templates, you need to follow the instructions on the Non-template User Guidelines page to comply with the Web guidelines.You will need to fill it out, and print out the hard copy that will come out as a PDF file, through Adobe Reader. Alternatively, you can have a Helpdesk Constultant assist you with the application by going to the ITS Help Desk in the Library Palmer Wing (LIB PW) Lobby. The application will be accepted after it has the approval from a college chair or manager and dean. If you are a UAS employee, your application requires the UAS Director's signature as well.Please make sure the monitor is securely plugged into the computer and/or the wall outlet, and that the power is on. If the computer is on and there is no display, please contact your respective college ITC or the ITS  Helpdesk at x6170.Please make sure the computer's power cord is securely connected to the wall outlet, and that the monitor is on. (If the monitor does not turn on, please check above.) If the computer still does not turn on, please contact your respective college ITC or the ITS Helpdesk at x6170.ITS provides, supports and maintains software for all faculty workstations. ITS has a site dedicated to informing users on how to use the software on their desktop at: http://www.calstatela.edu/its/techsupport/hardware/desktop/winsupport/dss_fac.htm.Wing (LIB PW) Lobby. You will be asked to show photo identification and complete the Request for Password Change form. The process to reset your password will take about 5 minutes, however your new password will not become active until the password file is updated on the system. The password file is updated every 60 minutes.Account to log in. Remember to erase the old/unwanted emails frequently along with messages saved in the Sent folder. If you can't receive your email, please come to ITS Help Desk (Library Palmer Wing Lobby) for help.The Student Scholar's Training Program (SSTP) presents a series of free hands-on computer workshops. It is a service that offers computer workshops in the use of campus wide network and communication tools, common personal productivity tools, and resources available through the Internet. The SSTP offers over 125 free hands-on computer workshops every quarter. In addition, the SSTP develops detailed documentation for applications available in the Open Access Labs.Although you may do so, it is generally not recommended, as it is always better to attend all sessions. If you happen to miss a session, it is probably a good idea to review the missed material prior to coming to the next class, out of courtesy for your workshop trainer and fellow student attendees.During the workshop you may ask the trainer or any of the assistants. If time permits, you may approach the trainer after the workshop. SSTP also offers a walk-in Questions and Answers sessions. See our printed schedule for details.You can download the content of our workbooks from our site, under the Training Resources menu > Workbooks and Data Files. Each workbook is divided into individual lessons and available in Adobe PDF file format. For each section, a self extracting archive containing all the sample data files is also available so that you may practice the exercises.The extent of our help is strictly limited to the material and content that is covered in the workshops. If further help is required, it is recommended that you seek your corresponding instructor or advisor.Any faculty member can have a web page on the university's main web server for posting information about their academic and professional activities via a biography, curriculum vitae or resume. The faculty advisor, president, or vice president of a student organization can request a web page for a recognized student organization. Any school, department, center, bureau, or institute on campus can also request a web site. Please see the full procedure on requesting a web site for detailed instructions.Emptying the disk and memory cache on your local computer and then reloading the web page will almost always take care of the problem (consult your browser's online help for the specific details on how to empty the cache).Web browsers are normally set to cache web pages so that a temporary copy of each web page is retained on the computer. This saves on download time since it means that the computer can simply look for the copy of the page that is already on your computer rather than download the page every time it is called.Normally, when a page contains static information, this works wonderfully. However, while you are developing a page, the changes may not appear when you try to view it in the browser. For a more long-term solution, you may want to set the preferences on your web browser so that it compares the cached file to the live file on the web every time a page is called.Whenever this message appears, it means that you are trying to upload a web page to an area on the web site to which you do not have access. You should check to make sure that you are uploading to the correct remote directory. If the problem persists and you are sure that you are trying to access the right directory, contact the CSULA Web Administrator and explain your problem.All university graphics are copyrighted exclusively to the university and cannot be used without expressed permission from the university's Office of Public Affairs. Please direct all questions about university copyright issues to the Office of Public Affairs.The Baseline Advisory Committee is responsible for addressing and responding to the needs of the campus community. In this regard, Information Technology Services adheres to the committee's decisions for meeting the IT standards in order to achieve the Baseline requirements for faculty, staff, and students. Committee members represent various sectors across campus and include deans, administrators, faculty, students, and staff.The remote control for the Multimedia Projector is located under the DVD/VCR player. Point it directly at the Multimedia Projector, and press the Power button to turn it on. It takes a minute to warm up.When you press power on the remote the steady orange light will change to a blinking green light. This means that the Multimedia Projector is warming up. After it finishes that phase you will see a steady green light, meaning that it is done warming up.Projector, aim the Remote Control at it and press the Power button again. The steady green light will change to a flashing orange light, which indicates that it is cooling down. After it cycles through this phase the light will change to a steady orange light as you saw it when you first came in, meaning that it is once again off.Swing out the left and right lamps and rise and adjust the camera lens before use. Controls on the front include pause, zoom in, and zoom  out buttons. In addition to displaying traditional transparencies, this device can display any three dimensional object. To display what is  on the Document Camera, press the button labeled Comp2/YCbCr from the Multimedia Projector remote control.To turn off the Multimedia Projector, aim the Remote Control at it and press the Power button again. The steady green light will change to a flashing orange light, which indicates that it is cooling down. After it cycles through this phase, the light will change to a steady orange light as you saw it when you first came in, meaning that it is once again off.When you press Power on the remote the steady orange light will change to a blinking green light. This means that the Multimedia Projector is warming up. After it finishes that phase you will see a steady green light, meaning that it is done warming up.Swing out the	left and right lamp and rise and adjust the camera lens before use. Controls on the front include pause, zoom in, and zoom out buttons. In addition to displaying traditional transparencies, this device can display any three dimensional object. To display what is on the Document Camera, press the button  labeled Comp2/YCbCr from the Multimedia Projector remote control.Swing out the left 	and right lamps and rise and adjust the camera lens before use. Controls on the front include pause, zoom in, and zoom  out buttons. In addition to displaying traditional transparencies, this device can display any three dimensional object. To display what is  on the Document Camera, press the button labeled Comp2/YCbCr from the Multimedia Projector remote control.The University Web Committee has established a set of Web page design guidelines to provide a consistent look and feel to the University Web site. All pages published on the University Web server should be redesigned to comply with these guidelines.Web templates have been developed for First Level and Second Level pages. Depending on the type of Web page you are publishing, you should follow the First Level page guidelines or t