5722018464	Sending a press release can sometimes be just as complicated as writing one.  You can (and should) broadcast it across services such as Business Wire's Education section, but you should also send it to selected editors yourself.Contrary to what many people do, you cannot just blindly send releases to any editor you can find since not all editors are interested in all things.  You have to target the editors just as you would target your market.  Local and niche publications (both print and online or electronic) are always good bets.After you have selected which publications you would like to send the release to, it is time to set up a database of editors.  When setting up the database, be sure to include as much information as possible. Besides the name, address, e-mail, fax and phone number of the editor, include such items as the preference for receiving releases (e-mail vs. snail mail), a brief description of the publication (this means research), dates of publication, and a contact history.Now, you may ask, "How do I find the editors?"  This also takes more work and more time, but is well worth it.  Some publications have fine print of the editors' names and phone numbers.  E-mail newsletters are usually edited by one person.  His/her name is almost always included in the e-mail.  If both of these methods fail, call the publication and ask for the name of the appropriate editor and address.Keep in mind, that although your newly created list is already targeted, not all your press releases will be appropriate to send to every one.  For example, if you made a charitable contribution to a local, not-for-profit organization that is only well-known within your area, local publications may be thankful for the story, but national publications will see it as a nuisance.Welcome to the new Studyabroad.com News!  We are expanding the scope of the newsletter to include our Marketing Manager's wealth of knowledge.  The newsletter will still contain articles from Mark Landon and the regular features you have come to expect.  In addition, there will be an informative marketing article to give you insight on how to be successful on the web as well as articles from other staff members.  Please enjoy the additional information!  If you have any questions or comments on our new format, feel free to contact Lori Faunce at lori@gradschools.com or 1-877-4040EDU.For $250 per week, you can purchase the Feature of the Week.  This is the first item to appear in the newsletter and can include up to 200 words.  Feature of the Week ads are sold on a 'first come - first served' basis.  Please inquire about availability.  This is an excellent way to get your message out to students pro-actively.For the first time, there will be four members of our staff at the conference.  Joining founders Mark Landon and Mark Shay will be associates Erica Brechemin and Jennifer Lewis.  Erica is employee #3 at Studyabroad.com.  In fact, Mark and Mark made the decision to create Erica's position while on the flight home from their first conference in Phoenix in 1996.  Erica joined the staff later that summer and has become an integral part of our organization, coordinating our free listing program as well as handling customer service and advertising sales.  Jennifer joined our staff this spring as our Studyabroad.com content manager (read more below).If you will be attending the conference, please stop by and say hi! We will be unveiling some great new features on the site, including some great new advertising opportunities with Studyabroad.com and Gradschools.com.  Study abroad advisors are invited to stop by and sign up for one of our Advisor's Kits, which will be sent by mail in August.  This year our Advisor Kits will include the new bound edition of our Studyabroad.com Handbook by Bill Hoffa.Studyabroad.com will be distributing an eight-page report on student facts at the NAFSA annual conference in May.  The report will contain information we have learned through our experience, surveys and log analysis about study abroad students.  We are looking forward to sharing our knowledge and expertise with you!  This valuable report is a must reading for study abroad program administrators.  Ask for your copy at the Studyabroad.com booth at the conference.From the traditional study abroad experience in France, to trekking through Europe with newfound "summer soul mates", packing at a moment's notice to fly across an ocean and from mastering chopsticks and snow surfing down a frozen waterfall, my wanderlust has fueled challenging opportunities.   Experience and exposure [if two by sea] enable me with a unique skill set of academic training, cultural learning and travel knowledge.  Studyabroad.com is the most exciting place of which I can conceive to impart the above.There are a lot of ways to promote your site, but nothing brings in traffic in a more cost effective way than being listed among the first 20 (or even better, the first 10) listings on a major search engine.  In order to achieve high rankings, your site has to be optimized for your particular keywords.  The more popular a search term, the more competitive it is to achieve a high ranking.Choosing the right keywords for your web site is getting to be tricky business. As the web is getting more crowded, it becomes harder to achieve high rankings with general keywords.  Instead, you should focus on using more specific keywords and phrases.  For example, if you ran a pet care web site, instead of the word "pet", you should use a more specific phrase such as "exotic animals" or "cat care", depending on the content of your site.Write down a list of words and phrases that best describe your site. After you are finished your list, pick out three or four keywords that describe your content most specifically.  Lastly, choose one that will be your primary keyword.There are two types of meta tags that most search engines look for - the description and the keywords.  The description meta tag is what the search engines use for the brief description of your site so it should be appealing to a reader and contain keywords (especially your primary keyword).  It is placed inside the  tag and immediately follows the  tag.The keyword meta tags is a list of keywords relevant to your site and does not appear in your search engine listing.  The use of keyword meta tags is simply a method of letting search engines know for which search terms your site appear.  Only keywords that appear in the body text of the page should be included in the keywords meta tags.  Also, the primary keyword you chose should be listed first, followed by the second most relevant, and so on.The title tag, often overlooked, is an extremely important part of optimization.  The title of the page should not only describe the page but also contain your primary keyword.  For example, Expert Cat Care Advice.  Many search engines are now paying more attention to the title and body text than the meta tags.The body text must contain keywords used in the tags as well as being excellent reading content.  The primary keyword should be listed at least two or three times in the first paragraph.  List it too many times, however, and the search engine may think you are spamming.Free Domains - Because of the large number of sites on many free hosting services, search engines can receive an overwhelming number of submissions from the same root domain each day.  Most search engines consider a large number of submissions from one domain in one day to be spam.  Hence, it may take several times before your site submission is accepted.There are several ways to submit your pages to a search engine.  You can use a software program which can cost a few hundred dollars.  The right software program can aid in optimization and tailor your submission for each search engine.  Web Position Gold is an example of a software program that has received rave reviews.Many experienced submitters swear by manual submission.  Manual submission requires you to visit each search engine and fill out an "Add URL" form.  Although time consuming, rumor has it that manual submission gives you a slight edge.  Despite this speculation it has yet to be determined.Here are the current top 10 EDU Domains visiting Studyabroad.com for the three month period ending on April 24, 2000. Following each school name you will find the number of pages viewed from that campus during the period.Studyabroad.com and VaristyBooks.com are pleased to announce a new content sharing deal.  Visitors to VaristyBooks.com are able to view Studyabroad.com program listings without leaving the VaristyBooks.com website.Studyabroad.com reach while providing users of the leading online college bookstore an additional rich resource.  VaristyBooks.com was recently named by Student Monitor as the most popular web site in the college market.This is the first of several high-profile content sharing arrangements currently in the works for Studyabroad.com. Details of other agreements will follow soon. Content sharing will drive signifcantly more traffic to Studyabroad.com.Several months ago we announced that we have acquired and are now managing the StudyAbroadWorldwide advertising cooperative program (http://www.studyabroadworldwide.com). This is a group of 8 study abroad organizations which have banded together to purchase banner advertising to promote their programs.  Last year the cooperative purchased ads on the Excite and Lycos search engine networks.  This year's budget will go towards advertising on leading college oriented sites including CollegeClub.com, StudentAdvantage.com and VarsityBooks.com.The group has decided to grow this program from 6 to 8 participants this year, in order to increase the overall budget.  Each participant will pay $3000 for the 2000 calender year. The cooperative fund will purchase more than 1,000,000 banner impressions, which will link to the Studyabroadworldwide website.  From this websit