5722018488	World War II aboard a destroyer  escort. After the war he entered the steel industry and joined the  family owned Morgan Construction Co., which creates the "machines  behind the machines"--designing continuous rolling mills for  worldwide use, oil-film bearings under the name Morgoil, and  universal joints and drive spindles for worldwide oil-field and  rolling-mill applications.The citation noted his efforts as fund-raising  chairman of the "Plan to Restore the Balance, " which exceeded its  $18.5 million goal; his dedication as director of Jobs for  Massachusetts, the Massachusetts Higher Education Loan Plan and the  American Farm School in Greece; and his "ability to ask the testing questions, tackle the difficult and accomplish it with seeming  ease."WPI opened its doors for the first time in 1868 on a 20-acre campus with just two buildings, Boynton Hall and the Washburn Shops. Over the past 128 years, the campus has changed dramatically as dozens of buildings have been constructed, older facilities renovated, new property acquired, and roads, walkways and parking areas created. In fact, physical change is a fact of life at a university as dynamic as WPI.This spring and summer, the evolution of the campus is continuing. Before the carillon on Alden Memorial calls students to classes once again in September, two major construction projects will be completed, another nearly finished and a third well under way. Like virtually every change to WPI's physical plant completed over the last century and a third, these initiatives are designed to make it easier for the university to complete its primary missions: to offer a high-quality education to its students, to provide a high quality of campus life for the entire WPI community, and to create new knowledge through leading-edge scholarship.Because West Street bisects the campus, splitting the academic core of buildings into east and west halves, students have had to cross this busy thoroughfare frequently on their way to classes, the library, residence halls, and so on. Concerned about the safety of its students, WPI successfully petitioned the city of Worcester in the fall of 1995 to close a portion of the street to vehicular traffic.This summer, WPI will convert this portion of West Street into an attractive, park-like pedestrian mall. The asphalt and concrete that now dominates this section will be removed and replaced by grass and trees. A walkway wide enough to permit emergency ve hicles to pass will be constructed. The result will be a green space that neatly and beautifully unites the central portion of the campus.Salisbury Laboratories for research, teaching and student project work in biology and biotechnology, the fastest growing academic discipline at WPI. The project will significantly upgrade several research labs, equipping them for state-of-the-art investigations in fields like molecular genetics, invertebrate zoology and bioremediation. A new greenhouse, to be built on the roof of Salisbury Labs, will be used for research in plant physiology and biotechnology, and for education in botany.This summer will also see a major renovation of the Grille, a popular campus dining facility located in the "Wedge" between Daniels and Morgan halls. The remodeled Grille will feature a Burger King and two concept dining areas: Leo's Delancy St. Deli and World's Fare. The new concepts and food offerings were chosen based largely on feedback from the Grille Advisory Committee and guest response.As Gompei's Place, the campus pizzeria and deli, will also be closed over the summer due to the renovations in Sanford Riley Hall, visitors are encouraged to dine in Morgan Cafeteria in Morgan Hall, which will be open Monday through Friday from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m.During the summer, the Career Development Center (CDC) will be relocated from the third floor of Boynton Hall to the lower level of the Project Center. Prior to the move, the center's new location will be fully renovated. The CDC provides a wide range of career planning and employment services to WPI students and alumni. It also maintains facilities for use by corporate recruiters while they are on campus to conduct interviews with students. The center's new home will include significantly improved interview facilities and will offer a quieter and more comfortable environment for students and the CDC staff.We understand also that leadership and innovation, two qualities that we aspire to foster in all of our students, come not only from the collaborative experiences of working in teams and across boundaries of knowledge and culture, but also from the creative instincts fostered by the experience of different modes of thought and ways of working.I look forward to reading future Transformations articles highlighting the individuals who shape our relationship with technology. Your magazine reminds me of the reason I am an engineer, and rekindles my appreciation for the WPI institution that shaped my education.What Studying mechanisms plant cells use to transport metal ions across their membranes; uncovering techniques plants employ to defend themselves against pathogens; developing techniques for enhancing the production and recovery of valuable chemicals made by plants.Why Understanding plant resistance mechanisms could reduce the need for pesticides; enhancing production of artemisinin, a potent anti-malarial agent produced by the wormwood plant, could help combat this global scourge.What Creating devices with surfaces that have precisely engineered physical and chemical properties for sensing and other applications; studying bacteria at the molecular level to learn how to prevent harmful biofilms from forming on medical devices.What Through BEI-CUTH, developing noninvasive optical sensors that can monitor vital signs and transmit them wirelessly; in the MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) lab, developing advanced techniques for detecting stroke and seeing how it responds to therapies; in the ultrasound lab, developing portable 3-D ultrasound for diagnosing injury.Typically, Oliver notes, industries waste 80 percent of the water they use. To urge its customers toward increasingly efficient water consumption, GE publicly recognizes industrial clients, via its Ecomagination awards, when they achieve considerable savings. Ford Motor Company, for instance, won a 2005 Ecomagination award. Using a GE antifoaming agent during its discharge process, Ford reduced water consumption by 230,400 gallons per year at its Kentucky Truck Plant in Louisville.Risk analysis is a relatively new field that gathers and analyzes information to evaluate how things behave in the environment, and their potential to impact our health or our environmental quality. For drinking water, we look to see what could cause adverse health effects and the contaminants that have the potential to occur in water; from there, we build a database of the available information. Then we come up with criteria to prioritize among them. We also consult a range of experts in the field, to compare the results and evaluate how well our models worked.Risk assessment is a tool that helps frame a variety of issues for environmental decision making, not just for drinking water. It can be applied to new technologies, such as nanotechnology, as well as decisions about site usage, such as brownfields, and biological issues.In the second-round NCAA tournament game last year against Western Connecticut State University, Brett Dickson '06 was suddenly thrust into a pressure moment. With about six seconds left, WCSU tied the game, leaving WPI players in a daze, recalls Coach Chris Bartley. But Dickson knew his coach didn't want to call a timeout. So he quickly in-bounded the ball to the team's top scorer, who made the winning basket. "He's the type of player who understands what is going on in a game so well that he really is the extension of the coach on the floor," says Bartley. "He's always thinking about the next play.This New Hampshire native and the son of a college basketball coach plays point guard and has been captain of the WPI team since his sophomore year. As a member of Bartley's first recruiting class, he helped the team set a university record last year for regular season wins, capture the NEWMAC regular season and tournament titles, and advance to the NCAA Division III championships for the first time in 20 years, going as far as the Sweet 16. This year, the team again advanced to the championships, after they won the NEWMAC tournament in February.Dickson's leadership abilities extend beyond the court; he is active in Big Brothers Big Sisters of Central Massachusetts. "You develop a great relationship with the kids," Dickson says. "I enjoy going every week."As of February, the electrical and computer engineering student boasted a 3.8 GPA. "His ability to balance basketball, academics, and community activities, and his ability to manage the other kids on the team, as well as himself, is remarkable," says Bartley.Following her impressive career on and off the soccer field, Holmes, now a biomedical engineering graduate student, found time to join the women's field hockey team as a center forward this winter. She even scored the first goal of the season, making the transition to another sport look easy, says Coach Johanna DiCarlo."She's a great example for the underclassmen," DiCarlo says. "She works hard at practices. She has a positive attitude. She's one of those rare student-athletes you get only every four or five years."It's that combination of success in sports and academics, as well as their leadership qualities, that make Holmes and Dickson stand out on a campus where more than half of the student body is active in varsity sports, club sports, or intramurals.Dickson's time of turmoil came during his freshman year. He started on a basketball team that struggled all year due to inexperience. And he was intimidated by his academic workload. But he gradual