5722018470	And a fourth view was that direct talks will only play into Iranian hands. Since the Iran war and other developments have strengthened Iranian influence in the Middle East , direct talks will legitimize the Iranian government. The U.S. administration is divided within itself and cannot negotiate shrewdly, or the Iranian government has so many factions that it can't deliver on a real deal anyway.The second thing you need to decide is what do we talk about? Do we confine the talks to the nuclear program, or is anything on the table? If anything is on the table, to include other concerns like terrorism, then some participants warned us, you will have on the Iranian side other factions in the leadership participating from their side in the talks. And that may make it more difficult to get agreement on the nuclear front.Moreover, if we're going to discuss other issues besides the nuclear issue in this larger setting, we're going to have to deal with Russia , China and the Europeans on those other issues. And it's been hard enough to corral them into a common view on the nuclear issue.So there are pros and cons to a broad agenda versus a narrow agenda. And then, finally, there are the conditions under which direct talks are held, and those conditions have to do with Iranians and with our allies. The conditions on the Iranians we've imposed so far, and I support this, is that they suspend enrichment. The condition that we imposed on our friends and partners was that if the talks didn't work, they'd be prepared to go down the path of sanctions. And both of those conditions are in doubt as we sit here today.Let me say something about coercion. Coercion can be political, economic or military; and just a couple of points. The first is that a point has been made several times in the course of this hearing already; economic coercion is not within the power of the United States to effect unilaterally for the simple reason that we essentially don't trade with Iran now anyway, and therefore there's nothing to take away. And so economic pressure is only possible if somebody else goes along with us in doing so.The second point to make about economic pressure is that the general view of people who study sanctions is varied as far as their assessment of the effectiveness. But there is an issue of time scale which does not seem to be controversial, and that goes like this. The political effect of the imposition of sanctions would be immediate. The Iranian people would feel their horizons constricted by this act, and that may have some effect on them. But it takes years for the economic effects of sanctions to bubble in, and we may not have that kind of time.With respect to political pressure, I would only note the $66 million, or whatever it is, of assistance that the United States government is going to give to the cause of splitting the Iranian government from its people. It will be, in my judgment, more than offset by the $55 billion of oil money that goes into the coffers of the Iranian regime this year, this calendar year, 2006, which will have 1,000 times the effect of drawing the Iranian government and their people together. And I think we need to be realistic; whatever you think of our efforts, that it's small in comparison to that.Military coercion. Military coercion has been much discussed in the press. It was much analyzed by our workshop. The proposition is very straightforward. It's about air strikes on the main facilities at Bushehr, at Arak , at Isfahan , and, of course, especially Natanz.I'm not going to add to what I'm sure members of this committee know perfectly well, which is that the consequences of an act of this sort would be very grave, both in terms of unifying the Iranian people behind their government and giving the Iranians opportunities to retaliate. It may still be worth the risk at some point, but the risk is very substantial.The point I'd like to make that I think is also important is that a strike of this kind does not eliminate -- would not eliminate the Iranian nuclear program. It only buys you time. And you need to do the math about how much time it would buy.So let us do a hypothetical here. Let's suppose that our intelligence judgment at the time a strike like this was mounted was that if we broke off talks and Iran was unconstrained and just raced to the bottom, it would take them four years. Let me suppose that that's our assessment; and that we further assess that if we continue to pretend we think the talks are going to succeed but we know they're not, we can add two years to that, for a total of six. But we believe that talks are a losing game.Let's suppose further that if we were to eliminate, in an air strike, the known facilities that I enumerated earlier, it would take Iran two years to restore them to their current state. These numbers are not entirely made up, but they're obviously -- each one of them is arguable.Well, at the end of the assumptions I just gave you, the attack wouldn't buy any time relative to continuing the negotiations. So one needs to do the math and ask how many years one is getting. Obviously if you're prepared to go back again and again and again and attack facilities as they are reconstituted, you can continue to buy time. But a single strike, which is so much discussed, buys a certain amount of time, but one needs to calculate how much that is. And depending upon the assumptions, it can be a short period of delay.A final point on coercion. Coercion is properly seen not as an alternative, in my judgment, to diplomacy, but as a complement to diplomacy; that is, you show the Iranians what you're prepared to do if they're not prepared to agree. Plan A and plan B reinforce each other. The specter of plan B strengthens your hand in plan A. And likewise, you can't be effective at plan B unless you have tried plan A and shown it to have failed.Finally, the third option was what do we do if Iran succeeds in getting the bomb? And I'll just say that our recommendations or thoughts about that, which is obviously a circumstance none of us wants to be in, divide into three categories, according to the three reasons why Iranians having the bomb is such a disaster. They might use it, and therefore we need to figure out how to protect ourselves and our friends in the region against a profound new threat. And that takes you to deterrence, to defenses, to counterforce, all of the familiar military tools.Second, an Iranian bomb might be diverted to other parties via direct transfer to groups like Hezbollah, a black-market sale by a corrupt scientist like an Iranian version of A.Q. Khan, seizure by extremist factions of a future Iranian government, or loss of control in a new Iranian revolution. All of these are eminently plausible and fearsome dangers, and one needs to consider what one will do to protect oneself in that circumstance. And again, I could say more. I won't now.But the third, and the point on which I'll close, is even if they don't use them and even if they don't divert them, the simple possession of the bomb by Iran creates a new fact in the region. It gives Iran a shield behind which it can be emboldened to try to extend its sway in the Middle East , export extremism, support terrorism and strike out at friends and allies of the United States .Iran 's success in getting the bomb with impunity might also give encouragement to others seeking the bomb or cause others in the region to feel compelled to follow suit. And we'll have to think about and we need to discuss, and it's in the report, the countermeasures possibly that the United States could take to try to limit the damage to nonproliferation from this unfortunate development and to contain and encircle a nuclear-armed and emboldened Iran .Mr. Chairman and members, this then constitutes the look ahead at the alternatives if diplomacy fails. Obviously none of them is attractive. And to repeat myself and close -- to repeat what I said at the opening -- in my personal judgment now; I'm not speaking for the workshop participants -- it would be premature at this time to move to coercion from diplomacy.Mr. Chairman, members of the committee, it is an honor to be here to discuss a subject that has important implications for U.S. national security – what the United States and Russia should do with the tens of tons of plutonium no longer needed for their nuclear weapons programs. I will briefly summarize my full statement, which, with your permission, I would like to submit for the record.I was the study director for the National Academy of Sciences study Management and Disposition of Excess Weapons Plutonium, issued in two volumes in 1994 and 1995, which provided the foundation for many of the policies that have been pursued since then.1 I then spent several years at the Office of Science and Technology Policy, where I was the principal staffer for the interagency plutonium disposition working group and for the U.S. delegation in the U.S.-Russian discussions of plutonium disposition. I was the U.S. staff director for the U.S.-Russia Independent Scientific Commission on Disposition of Excess Weapons Plutonium, which delivered its unanimous report to President Clinton and President Yeltsin in 1997.2 After leaving the government, I have continued to pay close attention to this program and its many trials and tribulations. While in the past my program at Harvard had a small grant from the disposition office, and at one time I consulted for Bechtel National on its efforts in this area, at present I have no financial interest in any side of this debate.It is important to be clear about what investing in plutonium disposition can and cannot buy us, and under what circumstances. Disposition of excess weapons plutonium – by which I mean physically transforming the plutonium into forms that would be difficult and costly to recover for use in nuclear weapons – can, under the right circumstances, make an importa