5722018485	Reuters - The case against a doctor and two nurses accused of murdering four elderly patients after Hurricane Katrina will go forward despite a coroner's ruling that it is unclear how they died, the New Orleans District Attorney's office said on Thursday.AFP - UN scientists have delivered their starkest warning yet about global warming, saying fossil fuel pollution would raise temperatures this century, worsen floods, droughts and hurricanes and melt polar sea ice.You may want to scan your system for spyware and viruses, as they may interfere with your ability to connect to Yahoo!.  For detailed information on spyware and virus protection, please visit the Yahoo! Security Center.Please check the URL for proper spelling and capitalization. If you're having trouble locating a destination on Yahoo!, try visiting the Yahoo! home page or look through a list of Yahoo!'s online services. Also, you may find what you're looking for if you try searching below.AFP - A deadly tornado has ripped through central Florida, tearing roofs off buildings, smashing homes and leaving thousands without electricity, local officials said, with at least two people reported dead.AFP - A deadly storm has ripped through central Florida, tearing roofs off buildings, flattening homes and leaving thousands without power, local officials said, with at least 14 people reported dead.Reuters - Severe thunderstorms and at least one tornado killed 14 people on Friday when they ripped through Florida in the dead of night, tearing homes to shreds, toppling heavy trucks and leaving a trail of rubble.AFP - UN scientists delivered their starkest warning yet about global warming, saying fossil fuel pollution would raise temperatures this century, worsen floods, droughts and hurricanes, melt polar sea ice and damage the climate system for a thousand years to come.AP - Residents whose homes were flooded during Hurricane Katrina can sue the Army Corps of Engineers over claims the agency ignored warnings about defects in a nearby navigation channel, a federal judge ruled Friday.Tomorrow: Light snow during the morning will transition to snow showers during the afternoon. Temps nearly steady in the low 30s. Winds W at 15 to 25 mph. Chance of snow 80%. Snowfall around one inch.Reuters - Nineteen people were killed on Friday when severe thunderstorms and at least one tornado splintered homes and left a trail of devastation through central Florida, an emergency center spokesman said.Reuters - Severe thunderstorms and at least one tornado killed 19 people on Friday when they ripped through Florida in the dead of night, tearing homes to shreds, toppling heavy trucks and leaving a trail of rubble.AP - Disaster crews with dogs went from one pile of debris to another in a search for bodies Friday after powerful storms, including at least one tornado, smashed hundreds of homes across central Florida and killed 19 people or more.Tomorrow: Snow during the morning will give way to a mixture of rain and snow during the afternoon. Temps nearly steady in the low to mid 30s. SW winds shifting to NW at 10 to 20 mph. About one inch of snow expected.Tomorrow: A steady light rain in the morning transitioning to showers and becoming mixed with snow in the afternoon. Temps nearly steady in the mid to upper 30s. Winds NW at 15 to 25 mph. Chance of precip 90%.Sunday: Rain and snow in the morning. The rain and snow will become lighter and change to all rain in the afternoon. Temps nearly steady in the mid to upper 30s. Winds N at 5 to 10 mph. Chance of precip 80%.Tomorrow night: Variable clouds with showers and scattered thunderstorms. Storms more numerous during the evening. Low 64F. Winds light and variable. Chance of rain 60%. 1 to 2 inches of rain expected.Women and men ventured into the streets to produce on makeshift stoves and ovens hot meals for their families. All this was done with a much-needed sense of humor, as you will note throughout this book.General subject index to all online holdings of The Museum of the City of San Francisco, and selected links to other Internet sites. Find the desired subject and touch the link. A reminder that some materials and photographs at the Museum, and elsewhere on the Internet, are protected by copyright.In response to repeated requests through our website we are setting out to compile a new and more accurate account of those affected by the 1906 earthquake.  We want information on everyone who was here at the time, both survivors and those who perished. Click on the 1906 Earthquake Great Register to find out how to submit your information.Photographs for six of these folios were taken in 1934-35, and the folios themselves were copyright 1935. Each folio consists of one 8 x 10 photograph, with text, to explain some technical detail of the pictured bridge construction. The photographers are not identified.Folio 6, titled Impossible..., is a spectacular panorama of San Francisco, the Bay, and the entire pathway of the San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge from the East Bay to the city. Some technical data about pier depths and underlying soil conditions are also given.U.S.S. California. There are five additional aerial photographs not part of the Associated Oil series, but of interest. The first is of the U.S.S. California as it passed under the Golden Gate Bridge a few weeks before the roadbed of the structure was completed. This is a U.S. Navy photograph.Pan American Clipper over the Bay Bridge also dates from mid-1936, and the photograph is also by Clyde Sunderland. Most of the roadway is complete, and approaches to the Yerba Buena tunnel are under construction. Note that Treasure Island had not been created when this photo was taken.South Tower of the Golden Gate Bridge under construction. This is a later, but somewhat same view, as seen in folio 3, and shows the casement for construction of the south tower. The north, or Marin tower, was nearing completion when this photograph was taken. The photograph is not credited.We are the virtual museum of the City of San Francisco. Under the direction of our curator, Gladys Hansen, our goal is to bring the fabled history of San Francisco into the light of historical accuracy. Please visit our site often as we will continue our mission with articles on new subjects and continue the enrichment of the existing materials on the site.We are eager to be the recipient of photographs and ephemera. We are especially interested in any 1906 materials. However, if you would like to donate other historical artifacts, we will suggest organizations that would be interested in receiving your donation.Great Earthquake and Fire of 1906 ranks as an unparalleled disaster in the history of San Francisco. More than four and one-half square miles of San Francisco burned and crumbled into a windswept desert of desolation.Nearly 200,000 people out of San Francisco's population of 450,000 were left homeless by the disaster. The Southern Pacific and Santa Fe Railroads immediately closed their ticket offices and threw wide the gates so all who chose could ride away from the scenes of destruction and desolation.Because of government and financial interests of the time, the official San Francisco death toll has always been extolled as remarkably small. The San Francisco Board of Supervisors official count in 1907 was only 478. It was thought that a high death toll would hamper the rebuilding and repopulation of the city.I am again looking to you for help. In response to repeated requests through our website my team and I are setting out to compile an accurate account of those effected by the 1906 earthquake. This time we are looking for information on everyone who was here at the time, both survivors and those who perished. It doesn't matter if they were killed instantly, were uninjured, stayed to help rebuild, left on the first boat or refugee train. All of their stories are important. We know that many places along the entire West Coast felt the impact of this earthquake. If your ancestors were in an outlying area and you know the story, please let us include them.Your family's oral histories are full of valuable information. You have all of the space you need in the boxes provided on each questionnaire to give as many details as you possibly can. Every detail is important to us.Thank you for sharing with us the stories and names of family members who were in San Francisco during the Great Earthquake and Fire of 1906.There has never been a master list of either survivors or fatalities in connection with this disaster; however, we are in the process of creating a list with your help.Description: For days following the disaster, indoor cooking was banned and this prohibition was enforced at rifle point. Consequently, both residents and refugees began cooking outside with provisional stoves pieced together by odds and ends.Description: Lodging house knocked "out of plumb" by the 1906 earthquake. The lodgers were lucky: a large number of apartment houses in the South of Market area collapsed completely, killing many of their occupants.Description: The Valencia Street Hotel, between 18th and 19th streets, was a four-story frame structure with a brick foundation, built on a swamp once known during the Mexican colonial period as Laguna de los Dolores or Laguna de Manantial. Flooding from a nearby broken water main and extreme liquefaction due to the already high water table caused the first floors of the hotel to sink into the ground, drowning many of the guests. Only a few survived.Description: The fires near the wharves and the lower South of Market region on the first day of the disaster. The Ferry Building in the foreground would be saved from the flames, principally by the expanse of East Street (now The Embarcadero) and the large open area in front of the structure that provided a safe distance from the nearby fires.Description: Safes were hauled to the streets from buildings and left to cool. Two weeks were requir