5722018487	Pediatric patients have not been definitively described. Patients with generalized juvenile polyposis can present with some of the nutritional and GI sequelae observed in CCS.Because the mean age for patients is 50-60 years, geriatric physicians must suspect this diagnosis for anyone with hair loss, nail changes, or hyperpigmentation that accompanies GI or nutritional deterioration.Background: Cyclic vomiting syndrome (CVS) is a paroxysmal, especially severe, recurrent vomiting disorder of unknown etiology. It was first described by Gee in 1882. Because vomiting is a common index symptom attributable to various GI and extraintestinal disorders, this idiopathic syndrome remains poorly recognized. Consensus diagnostic criteria established in 1994 at the First International Scientific Symposium on CVS helped define the criteria needed to make this elusive diagnosis. At its core, CVS is characterized by a unique temporal pattern of recurrent, discrete, and stereotypical episodes of explosive vomiting that punctuate periods of completely normal health (Li, 1995).Pathophysiology: The etiology, pathophysiology, and target organ in CVS remain unknown. With a flurry of research over the last decade, recent studies have proposed several potential brain-gut mechanisms. Support exists for migraine-related mechanisms, and patients with CVS have a significantly higher prevalence of family members with migraine headaches (82% vs 14% of control subjects with a chronic vomiting pattern). Furthermore, 28% of patients with CVS whose vomiting resolved subsequently developed migraine headaches. Finally, 80% of affected patients with family histories positive for migraine respond to antimigraine therapy (Li, 2003).History: Cyclic vomiting syndrome (CVS) is characterized by recurrent, discrete, stereotypical episodes of rapid-fire vomiting in between varying periods of completely normal health (see Consensus diagnostic criteria for CVS below). This on-and-off stereotypic pattern of vomiting is nearly pathognomonic of CVS. If a patient experiences any symptoms in between episodes, it implies either a misdiagnosis of CVS or a superimposed chronic vomiting disorder (eg, gastroesophageal reflux), which must be investigated further (Pfau, 1996).Many patients experience remission in the summer, when the number of infections and school stressors decline (Li, 1995).The terms CVS and abdominal migraine have often been used interchangeably because of overlap in clinical criteria. Indeed, the key criteria, except vomiting, in abdominal migraines are identical to those in CVS: recurrent, stereotypical, and severe episodes of abdominal pain; punctuating well periods; autonomic symptoms (eg, pallor, lethargy); and a family history of migraine headaches. Because 80% of children with CVS have abdominal pain, and 50% of those with abdominal pain vomit, many children can be diagnosed with either CVS or abdominal migraine. When both symptoms occur, the authors use the predominant or most consistent symptom as the primary label.Medical Care: Pharmacologic therapy is used to prevent episodes of vomiting or to decrease their frequency. Other medications may be used to abort or attenuate episodes once they begin. Preventive medications are normally used in patients with more than a single episode of cyclic vomiting syndrome (CVS) per month. The mainstays of prophylactic therapy include cyproheptadine, amitriptyline, propranolol, phenobarbital, and erythromycin. When prophylactic agents fail or episodes occur infrequently, abortive agents such as ondansetron and sumatriptan may be used. If abortive therapy fails, supportive combinations such as ondansetron plus lorazepam or chlorpromazine plus diphenhydramine may attenuate an attack of cyclic vomiting in progress.In the absence of known pathophysiology, treatment of CVS remains empiric (Li and Fleisher, 1999; Forbes, 1995). The following 5 management strategies are used for CVS: avoidance of triggers, prophylactic pharmacotherapy, abortive therapy, supportive care during acute episodes, and family support (Li and Balint, 2000).In some instances, avoiding identified dietary triggers such as chocolate, cheese, and MSG can prevent episodes without the use of medication (Li and Balint, 2000). If psychological stressors trigger episodes, stress management techniques or benzodiazepine anxiolytics (lorazepam or diazepam) may help to abort attacks in the early stages. However, avoiding common triggers such as car rides and infection may be impractical or impossible. Interestingly, a 70% decrease in frequency of episodes (placebo effect) upon consultation and lifestyle changes without drug therapy has been noted (Fleisher, 1995).Daily prophylactic pharmacotherapy may be used to prevent episodes that occur more than once per month or if they are extremely severe and disabling, (eg, lasting >3 d) (Li, 1993; Li, 1996). Most of these drugs are non-GI medications such as antimigraine agents, anticonvulsants, neuroleptics, and prokinetic drugs. A family history positive for migraines predicts a high response rate (80%) to antimigraine medications; therefore, these agents are a logical first choice (Li and Balint, 2000).In an open-label experience, with efficacy defined as greater than 50% reduction in episode frequency or severity, propranolol, cyproheptadine, and amitriptyline were effective 57%, 39%, and 67% of the time, respectively (Li and Hayes, unpublished data, 1999; Pfau, 1996; Andersen, 1997). The North American Society for Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition guidelines recommend cyproheptadine as first-line therapy in children younger than 5 years. However, cyproheptadine can cause substantial weight gain because of an increase in appetite. Amitriptyline is the first-line choice in children older than 5 years and adolescents (Li and Balint, 2000). Phenobarbital demonstrated a 79% success rate in one open-label trial in children who did not have EEG changes (Gokhale, 1997). Erythromycin, a gastric prokinetic agent, demonstrated a 75% success rate in one open-label study (Vanderhoof, 1993).When both prophylactic and abortive therapy fail, supportive care  becomes an essential aspect of treatment during acute episodes. Intravenous glucose-containing fluids may diminish the severity of episodes by up to 42% (Li, Int Semin Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr, 2000). Glucose may be the active ingredient by truncating the ketosis. However, the abdominal pain may be severe enough to require nonsteroid anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) or narcotics once a surgical abdomen has been excluded. Sedatives such as diphenhydramine, lorazepam, and chlorpromazine have been administered to permit sleep and to provide temporary respite from unrelenting nausea (Li, Int Semin Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr, 2000). The combined use of lorazepam and ondansetron appears to be more effective than ondansetron alone.Most published series indicate that cyclic vomiting syndrome (CVS) lasts an average of 2.5-5.5 years, resolving in late childhood or early adolescence. A few patients continue to be symptomatic through adulthood.As early as 1898, clinicians observed that some patients went on to develop migraine headaches. The fact that some children with CVS progress to abdominal migraines and then to migraine headaches implies that a sequential progression of age-dependent manifestations of migraines may exist.A survey by Abu-Arafeh and colleagues (1995) revealed the mean ages of children with CVS, abdominal migraines, and migraine headaches to be 5.3, 10.3, and 11.5 years, respectively. This supports the developmental progression from vomiting to abdominal pain to headache.In unpublished data, Li and Hayes found that nearly one third of patients develop migraines after resolution of CVS and predict that nearly 75% develop migraines by age 18 years (Li and Hayes, 1999).Caption:   Picture 1. Cyclic versus chronic temporal patterns of recurrent vomiting. The number of emeses is plotted over a 2-month period. The chronic pattern, represented by a thin dashed line, has low grade on nearly a daily basis (eg, gastroesophageal reflux). The cyclic pattern, represented by a heavy solid line, involves high-intensity episodes intermittently once every several weeks (eg, cyclic vomiting syndrome).Background: Acute diarrhea is defined as the abrupt onset of abnormally high fluid content in the stool (more than the normal value of approximately 10 mL/kg/d). This situation usually implies an increased frequency of bowel movements, which can range from 4-5 to more than 20 times per day. The augmented water content in the stools is due to an imbalance in the physiology of the small and large intestinal processes involved in the absorption of ions, organic substrates, and water. A common disorder in its acute form, diarrhea has many causes and may be mild to severe. Childhood acute diarrhea is usually caused by infection; however, a number of disorders may cause this condition, including a malabsorption syndrome and various enteropathies. Acute-onset diarrhea is usually self-limited; however, an acute infection can have a protracted course. By far, the most common complication of acute diarrhea is dehydration.Pathophysiology: Viruses directly damage the small intestinal villi, thereby decreasing intestinal surface area and unmasking ongoing fluid secretion by enteric crypts. Furthermore, rotavirus produces an enterotoxin that possibly induces secretion and contributes to the watery diarrhea. Bacteria may cause diarrhea by several different mechanisms. Invasive bacteria cause mucosal ulceration and abscess formation with a concomitant inflammatory response. Bacterial toxins may influence  enteral and extraenteric cellular processes. For example, the heat-labile and heat-stable enterotoxins of Escherichia coli  activate enteral adenylate cyclase and guanylate cyclase, respectively. Verotoxin, which is produced by enterohemorrhagic E coli and Shi