5722018465	It was agreed that all research proposals are needed in the hands of an IRAC US committee member by November 15, who in turn needs to distribute it to the other members. Ideally, some proposals will be received prior to our fall meeting so that a preliminary review/ discussion can occur at that time. At the Beltwide Cotton Conference (January), a final decision will be made regarding the proposals and funding. Researchers will be notified by January 15.IRAC US participate in training consultants in Louisiana. However, it was agreed that we are not ready to pursue this activity this month. It was agreed that such training will be part of our overall educational effort which we are currently developing through Fleishman-Hillard.Sharlene Matten/EPA had questions for IRAC US regarding their involvement in resistance issues. The committee, in general, was reluctant to have EPA make decisions on resistance management but favored open discussion on issues. There was concern that discussions could lead to regulation or types of recommendations that may not be acceptable. There was a strong recommendation that an EPA representative attend our meetings (at least once per year). It was proposed that Sharlene Matten/EPA be invited to our next meeting at IRAC US expense, if necessary.Alban, C., P. Baldet, and R. Douce. "Localization and characterization of two structurally different forms of acetyl- CoA carboxylase in young pea leaves, of which one is sensitive to aryloxyphenoxypropionate herbicides."This issue is the largest yet with four News and Review abstracts, 19 articles and numerous announcements.  The Newsletter is available on the World Wide Web thanks to Michael Caprio at Mississippi State University.  It is also accessible through the Internet.Netscape, Lynx, MacWeb, or WebExplorer is required.  It is not feasible in a short space to explain the use and installation of such programs (there are books dedicated to this purpose).  The most commonly used program, Netscape, is available free (for educational institutions) for the Macintosh, Windows and Unix /operating environments, and may be obtained by anonymous ftp from ftp.netscape.com.  For those willing to sort out the details, access to the internet over phone lines can be achieved with the trumpet winsock shareware package, available as the file winsock.zip from the ftp.ncsa.uiuc.eduor from sunsite.unc.edu (the directory at the latter site is: pub/packages/infosystems/www/) in the socket directory.Type "cd pub/rpmnews" to change to the new directory.  Type "get rpmnews" to transfer the most recent text version of the RPM Newsletter onto your computer.  Back issues are also in this directory with the date as the file extension (i.e. rpmnews.jun, rpmnews.may).The service functions as an intermediary ftp server, performing the steps in method one above and e-mailing the results to you.  This service is provided by the decwrl.dec.com server which is very busy and very slow.  You may have to wait a week or more to receive the newsletter in this manner."There is insufficient space here to review these debates, but it seems clear that the EPA is reluctant to use regulation to help delay resistance to pesticides.  In the EPA's defense, it may not have the resources to do so.  EPA has made some modest Proactive efforts in avoiding resistance, such as requesting resistance management statements from some companies developing transgenic plants and more traditional pesticides.  Nonetheless, in the absence of any efforts to enforce or facilitate the adoption of resistance management plans, such documents clearly have little more than public relations or educational value.MacWeb, or WebExplorer is required. It is not feasible in a short space to explain the use and installation of such programs (there are books dedicated to this purpose). The most commonly used program, Netscape, is available free (for educational institutions) for the Macintosh, Windows and Unix operating environments, and may be obtained by anonymous ftp from ftp.netscape.com.For those Windows 3.1 users willing to sort out the details, access to the internet over phone lines can be achieved with the trumpet winsock shareware package, available as winsock.zip from the ftp.ncsa.uiuc.eduor from sunsit.unc.edu (the directory at the latter site is pub/packages/infosystems/www/ in the socket directory. Several companies are producing all-in-one solutions for internet connections, while newer operating systems such as OS/2 V3.0 & V4.0 and Windows '95 have internet access built in.The Weed Society of New South Wales, Australia, was formed in 1966 to promote the awareness and understanding of weeds. Members receive our newsletter, A Good Weed, four times per year, detailing activities and advances in weeds, both within the state and nationally. Recent articles have addressed issues such as weeds and the law, the discovery of glyphosate resistance, volunteer bushcare, the use of adjuvants, progress in biological control, the spread of weeds during drought, chemicals in bushland weed management programs, weeds on the internet, the NSW weed strategy, willows, nodding thistle and gloriosa lily.Historically, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has considered resistance and resistance management in its decisions to register and regulate pesticides. With a greater public focus on pollution prevention and pesticide reduction, the EPA believes that it is important to implement effective resistance management strategies. The Pesticide Resistance Management Workgroup of the Office of Pesticide Programs (PRMW)1 was created, in part, to examine EPA's role in resistance pest management and to provide policy options to regulate pesticides to reduce selection for resistance.Pest Management. The EPA does not have an official policy on pesticide resistance management or a standard of data requirements for pesticide resistance management, although some regulatory decisions have included the effects of pesticide resistance. The EPA has addressed pesticide resistance issues under the following sections of the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA), Section 18 (emergency exemption decisions), Section 6 (special review decisions based on unreasonable human health and/or environmental risks), and Section 3 (registration decisions).This article updates the EPA's activities in pesticide resistance management. Three topics are discussed: (1) cooperation with Canada on a voluntary initiative on pesticide labeling for pest resistance management, (2) Section 18 policy revisions and resistance management, and (3) public hearings on resistance management considerations for plant-pesticides.The EPA provided comments to the PMRA on this voluntary initiative. The EPA believes that Canada's proposed guidelines on labeling pesticides for pest resistance management offer the U.S. an opportunity for a cooperative, international approach to pest resistance management. In principle, the EPA supports such an approach. Like Canada's PMRA, the EPA supports the development of sustainable pest management systems based on the incorporation of sound environmental strategies. Pest resistance management in conjunction with alternative pest management strategies and integrated pest management programs can make significant contributions to reducing pesticide risks to humans and the environment. The EPA will continue to work with the PMRA on this initiative to label pesticides for pest resistance management in Canada and the U.S.They allow a pesticide to be applied to a crop or in a situation not stated on the pesticide label, or to apply a pesticide not yet registered by the EPA. More than 30% of all emergency exemption requests in the last five years were associated with control failures due to pest resistance to the alternative registered pesticides. Frequently, the EPA is urged to issue emergency exemptions for two or more pesticides with different modes of action in response to existing resistant pest problems or when a pest has a long history of resistance development.These exemptions seek to prevent pest resistance to pesticides before they are even registered. However under Section 18 guidelines, EPA can only grant an emergency exemption based on resistance when 1) pest resistance to the registered alternative(s) has already developed, 2) a pest control emergency exists, 3) the currently registered pesticides are ineffective, and 4) a significant economic loss is expected.Washington D.C. to consider revisions to the Section 18 regulations, including these emergency exemptions based on pest resistance management. At this meeting, the EPA decided to revise its Section 18 policy to allow emergency exemptions for two or more requested pesticides (with different modes of action) for resistance management based on strict criteria. These criteria must demonstrate a potential for pesticide failure and subsequent significant economic loss as a direct result of pest resistance.Clarity in EPA's guidance and regulations for issuing emergency exemptions should reduce the number and frequency of Section 18 emergency exemptions considered and issued. Further reductions are anticipated as the number of pesticides with different modes of action become available. The EPA will continue to develop criteria for granting emergency exemptions based on pest resistance considerations.There are other plant-pesticides that do not involve the insertion of Bt d-endotoxins. However, pesticidal proteins in Bt plant-pesticides (like the CryI d-endotoxins) are also widely used in a variety of Bt foliar sprays applied to many crops.Thus, pest resistance to Bt plant-pesticides could also affect the efficacy of the Bt foliar sprays. Therefore, industry, academia, government, user groups and environmental groups believe that the protection of Bt transgenic plants is important and that resistance management is critical.A subpanel from the OPP Science