5722018467	Shuttle foam troubles portend larger issues, suggested Howard McCurdy, a space policy expert and professor of public affairs and chair of the public administration department at American University in Washington, D.C."Given the lack of money for the Crew Exploration Vehicle, the assumption regarding the launcher is that it will be something derived from the current shuttle," McCurdy said. In his view, if NASA and its contractors cannot fix and test new approaches to foam application "that in turn confounds the cost assumptions underlying the whole vision."The current shuttle flight, McCurdy said, is the beginning of the end for the space shuttle and eventually the International Space Station (ISS). "The vision for space exploration calls for NASA to get out of the business of operating both. The space shuttle is needed to complete construction of the International Space Station and possibly extend the life of the Hubble Space Telescope, but it is not the future vehicle of choice for missions beyond."Gump said that it has become clear to NASA that it could not afford to operate the International Space Station with "business as usual" methods - meaning use of the space shuttle and Crew Exploration Vehicle, he said."That is not a prescription for success if history is any guide, and I believe it is," Launius said. "I am concerned that we will begin the CEV research and development effort and find it is non-sustainable for any number of reasons, and like X-33 [a canceled NASA reusable project] and the National AeroSpace Plane decide to hit the reset button."Launius told SPACE.com that he is increasingly viewing "as a horror story" the half-hearted quest for human space access since the space shuttle. "And the events of the last couple of days do not make me sanguine for the future," he said."With sufficient diligence and resources, of course, virtually anything we can imagine in spaceflight may be achieved. What concerns me is that neither sufficient diligence nor resources will be available for the continuation of human spaceflight beyond the end of the shuttle program," Launius stated.Each man had an intimate tie to the Columbia disaster. Two were in Mission Control trying to save the shuttle and its crew, and two were 900 miles (1,448 kilometers) away at the Florida landing strip waiting for a spacecraft that would never come.One will repeat his role as launch and entry flight director when Discovery blasts off soon. Two others will take part in the mission as well. The fourth, robbed of a wife when Columbia crashed, has dedicated his career to making future spacecraft safer.Cain said a silent prayer for the seven dead astronauts and their families, before pulling the thick white binder from the bookshelf by his desk. The binder, containing contingency plans, still is there. And Cain will be at the same desk for Discovery's upcoming liftoff and its return, still the most dangerous parts of a space shuttle flight. Liftoff is set for July 13.Cain did not ask to reprise his role as launch and entry flight director for the first shuttle mission since the Columbia tragedy, but no one else was certified to do it. Besides, he was assigned the job well before Columbia went down.Cain also had to cope with the accountability he felt for dismissing the possible damage Columbia's left wing suffered when insulation foam hit it at liftoff. He went into Mission Control on landing day confident the spacecraft suffered no serious harm, but by the time the wing sensors started failing and communication was lost, he knew the battered wing was to blame.For Discovery's upcoming flight to the international space station, Hobaugh, 43, will once again serve as a capcom, but only during the segment of the mission involving the space station. Discovery's astronauts will pay a visit there.Hobaugh would have liked to resurrect his role as shuttle capcom for Discovery's re-entry, but the job was already taken. Besides, he is assigned as shuttle pilot to a mission next year, and soon will be busy training for that.The request ended up being squashed by the head of the shuttle mission management team, Linda Ham. Hale did not fight her decision and was waiting for Columbia at the Cape Canaveral landing strip that awful morning.Ham was demoted after the accident and Hale was promoted, becoming deputy shuttle program manager and chairman of the revamped mission management team. He will give the final ``go'' for Discovery's launch and make all key decisions during the 12-day flight.Little more can be done to improve the three remaining shuttles before they are retired in five years, although the lessons of Columbia could help a future crew faced with a similar re-entry crisis, Clark says.Despite conflicted feelings, he plans to join other family members of the Columbia astronauts for Discovery's July launch. But his only child, 10-year-old Iain, won't. The boy doesn't want to go back to the place where he saw his mother leave Earth, never to return.Kostelnik detailed shuttle recovery and planning efforts, as well as the exhaustive modifications applied to the shuttle system. The most notable, he said, was the development of a lengthy boom that will be used to inspect a shuttle once on-orbit. Design, development and delivery of that flight hardware took just two years, he said, saluting that accomplishment.Following the Challenger incident -- and as a still-to-fly astronaut at the time -- McCulley said he witnessed a complete lack of direction in moving forward. Following the Columbia accident, a far stronger leadership has emerged, he said.Recovery efforts were started within hours after the Columbia accident, McCulley explained. The NASA-industry teamwork has been fully engaged in finding the problem, fixing the problem, and returning to flight, he said.The wide-ranging report is targeted at making human space travel less hazardous, calling for a shut down of the space shuttle program as soon as possible and limiting some aspects of International Space Station construction.The lengthy, 8-section interdisciplinary academic study represents a combined cumulative effort by a dozen faculty and graduate students, undertaken during 2004 into early 2005, delving into human space flight safety in the past, present and into the future.The report takes a look at the management, technical and operational aspects of all NASA astronaut-related programs, sharply focusing on the space shuttle program, the International Space Station, and various human spacecraft and escape vehicles that have been initiated by NASA within the past fifteen years.Explore reducing the number of remaining flights for the shuttle by limiting some aspects of International Space Station construction. This should be considered in concert with the international partners and should not involve reduction of flights related to major international subsystems, specifically European and Japanese elements.Evolution to launch systems that use new technology such as ion engines, tethers, or electrical and nuclear propulsion systems instead of "chemical explosions" may represent the key to providing safer and more reliable access to space in the future.Advancement of Space Safety as a way to cut across national boundaries and provide for a more integrated ISS operational process for safety and emergency procedures. This association was formed last year and is dedicated to furthering international cooperation and scientific advancement in the field of space systems safety. The first meeting of the group is being held this coming October in Nice, France.As for the longer-term future of astronaut safety, developing the safest transportation systems may not be the greatest challenge, the study team reports. Instead the prime issues may relate to protecting astronauts in space from debris, micro-meteorites, comets, radiation, zero and/or low gravity environments, and thus a move toward the more difficult aim of long-term survival in space.Challenger accident in 1986 should have spurred a rethink of the space program, both in terms of moving toward a shuttle replacement and a more modularized space station for easier construction in times of shuttle groundings.Houston Mayor Bill White and other city officials dedicated a granite memorial in a downtown park to honor the seven astronauts killed as the space shuttle returned from a 16-day science and research mission."He was watching the clock and remembering when exactly it happened," the widow said Tuesday, referring to space shuttle Columbia's disintegration over Texas shortly before 8 a.m. CDT two years ago. "This is the first time he's done that, but he's 9 now. He was 7 when it happened."Gen. Jefferson D. Howell Jr. said it was fitting that a Columbia memorial was placed in Houston. "As most of us in Houston know, the first word spoken from the surface of the moon was Houston," he said.Jon Clark, a NASA neurologist who was married to astronaut Laurel Clark, a member of Columbia's final crew. "It's not the searing heart ripped out of your chest, it's more of just a chronic ache," he said.Elsewhere in Texas, residents laid out roses during a remembrance ceremony in Hemphill, a small town where shuttle debris was found after Columbia broke apart. Mourners also placed flowers at a memorial at the Kennedy Space Center in Cape Canaveral, Fla."We won't ever forget that. But when we have something like this to work on, it gives us a lot of enthusiasm and pride to focus on the future," said payload operations manager David Schubert. He was standing next to a 50-foot inspection boom, the new tool astronauts will use to make sure the shuttle has reached space unscathed.For the first time since Columbia went down, "we're in pretty much known territory," said NASA's top spaceflight official, Bill Readdy, a former space shuttle commander. "We know how to process vehicles. We know how to get to the launch pad from here.""You can just feel it in the ai