5722018472	Staff members at Bemiss have never used poverty as an excuse for poor academic performance, even though more than 80 percent of their students qualify for free or reduced-price lunches. No one doubts that children from higher-income neighborhoods, with better-educated parents, enjoy advantages that help them succeed in school. But Bemiss children are the ones these educators feel compelled to teach. Says Smesrud, "This is where my heart is."Instead of fleeing from criticism, Bemiss staff members have united behind the goal of remaking their school from the inside out, to give every child a chance to thrive. They weren't sure, when they began this journey, which path would take them where they needed to go. But like the hero of that classic children's tale, The Little Engine That Could, they've drawn strength from the motto, "We think we can." And they've been chugging steadily uphill ever since.Specialist Chris Rhines and her colleagues at the state Education Department. After a year of screening and winnowing, 20 schools made the final cut. Rhines, who oversees CSRD statewide and coordinated the search for suitable schools, talked with Northwest Education magazine Editor Lee Sherman about the challenge of making change on a schoolwide scale.Rhines: Yes. Some were eliminated because they had no evidence of that at all. We felt that they needed to have such a strong foundation to be able to make CSRD work, and we couldn't spend the year getting people ready for that.NW: The process of determining which schools can really make deep changes in the way they do things is kind of subjective, isn't it? You're not just looking at scores and objective measures. You're looking at readiness and willingness to change. How do you really get a handle on that?Rhines: Yes, it was somewhat subjective. Our preapplications were sent to districts (rather than schools). Most district people will tell you, in a closed room, "Oh, yes, that school, that principal, that leadership team, they have the capacity to do it." But the thing we have to keep in mind is that if they had all those pieces in place, they probably wouldn't be consistently low-performing schools. So something was missing.That's why we did the site visit. We spent a half-day in each school we visited, interviewing the principal, talking about things like, "What would you see as the most pressing need for change in your school?" and, "How would you envision getting your staff there?" and "What do you think are the important things?" Really, we were just talking about all the things that we know from research are necessary.There's one school that comes to mind that, when we read the application, the principal received a really high score. When we talked with the principal, we felt really good about it. But then we talked with teachers individually, asking very pointed questions, such as, "Do you think your principal has the leadership qualities to be able to make this happen?" And that's when things started coming out. Some people said, "No, the principal's way too negative and doesn't know how to bring us together" and "There's a lot of infighting on the staff, and the principal doesn't want to battle the thing."Not only does the whole idea create some controversy within the staff (with some maintaining that the ensuing excitement detracts from the learning process, and others claiming that it promotes a shared identification with and loyalty to the school), but also the suggested themes for dress up have created some disagreement.For example, a day when students could dress in camouflage was variously seen as honoring relatives who had served in the armed forces or as promoting an underlying theme of aggression and violence. Other themes might result in more noise than usual or in the use of clothes and body decorations (such as glitter spray) which could be toxic.I would be interested in getting a dialogue going about this issue. What are other schools doing? Have any of you designed such a week around promoting positive, peaceful themes? What do you see as the pitfalls and advantages of special dress days?I discovered your magazine by chance. I feel so fortunate to have done so. I have printed so many articles my printer may blow up or certainly run out of ink! I have found the magazine as a whole to be both educational and useful. Your words echo many of my thoughts and concerns as an educator, art therapist, artist, and writer. I am forwarding your Web address to my colleagues. Thank you for a fantastic, informative publication.With the publication of the following letter from one of our readers, we hope to initiate a regular column devoted to your thoughts and ideas on the world of education. Our wish is to open a spirited dialogue on these pages, where you can trade opinions and share promising practices with your colleagues around the Northwest and beyond.Topics we feature in the magazine are just a jumping-off place. We'd also like to hear about other issues you confront in your day-to-day working lives. The letter below grew out of our Spring 1999 magazine on school safety, but takes a unique turn into a novel aspect of the subject-one we didn't touch on in the publication.Not long after that I found a huge volume on astronomy. The librarian smiled as I lugged the big book to the checkout counter in my skinny arms. My dad, the Eagle Scout, had taken me outside one night and pointed toward the starry sky, tracing the constellations of lights that formed Orion, the Big Dipper, and Pleiades. I wanted to know more about the heavens.The humble little school library, I began to see, was a ramp to everything in the world and beyond, everything that could be dreamed and imagined, everything that could be known, everything that could be hoped. Books became balm and refuge. Magic chariot and decoder ring. Periscope and time machine.At one extreme, recognition of early literacy sometimes leads to inappropriate responses. Lande deplores what happens when, for instance, parents try to "shove a first-grade curriculum into a four-year-old."From being read to repeatedly, these children have learned that reading is enjoyable, that pictures provide clues to the story, that books and print go from left to right, that print represents words and meaning, that stories have a beginning and an end. By listening, watching, and asking questions, they add to their vocabulary and increase their comprehension. They are beginning to make associations between letters and letter sounds. And by learning to love stories, they are becoming motivated to read on their own.The desire to imitate adults is a powerful motivator for writing. Children are also motivated to write when they have a real-world task to accomplish, as Neuenschwander found the last time she and her family visited Africa.Learning to Read and Write urges teachers to view reading and writing skills in a developmental continuum within which children will show normal variation related to differences in individual development and culture."Teachers need to find where kids are on the continuum and support their continued learning," says coauthor Sue Bredekamp of the NAEYC. For children showing extraordinary variation, intervention is necessary.The joint statement sets out a sample continuum of early reading and writing development consisting of "challenging but achievable goals" and the types of teacher and parent support that will help children reach the goals. A goal for preschool, for example, is "Identify some letters and make some letter/sound matches." A goal for kindergarten is "Show familiarity with rhyming and beginning sounds." A goal for first grade is "Orally read with reasonable fluency."Smaller class size to facilitate individualized instruction: adult-child ratios of no more than one adult for every eight to 10 four- and five-year-olds with a maximum group size of 20; class sizes of 15 to 18 in the early grades.Adequate numbers of books (as well as software and multimedia resources) for classrooms and school libraries. Five books per child is the minimum necessary to provide the most basic print-rich environment.This year Fenner is sleeping better. In the fall of 1997 the teachers at Clackamas Elementary created a system of reading blocks that includes every student from second through sixth grade. "We assessed all students in the first couple of months of school and tried to figure out where each one placed on a reading continuum," Fenner explains. "We ended up with 14 reading groups this year, organized according to grade level and reading ability."Every morning, students gather in their "blocks" for one hour of intensive reading instruction. Those with the most difficulty learning to read meet in groups as small as six, while good readers work in groups four times that size.And today Fenner just happens to have enough copies of Coyote Plants a Peach Tree for teams of two to read the story aloud to one another. Children settle around the room in pairs and the pleasant drone of voices fills the air as Fenner strolls around looking over shoulders, making sure every child is either reading or listening. "How does good reading sound?" she asks.There are shelves of books, boxes of books, racks of books. There are Caldecott award-winners and Newberry picks, books that have been recommended by other educators and books that have not. In fact, the walls are so covered with resource information that the classroom itself reads like a book.Shelves and bins are clearly marked to help students find what they want. Authors like Dr. Seuss, Eric Carle, and Laura Ingalls Wilder are all identified, as are series like Anne of Green Gables and The Chronicles of Narnia. Subject headings include such topics as cowboys, holidays, and biographies.Ben has learned about realistic fiction, as well as other genres of literature, from Marchese. One of her wall displays includes definitions not only for realistic fiction, but also f