5722018457	All permanent staff who have completed their probationary period are eligible to become Council members. Members are elected by popular vote for a two-year term. In the case of resignation of a member, the Rules and Election Committee advertises for interested staff members, interviews these people and submits a nominee to the Council. The appointment is then voted on by the Council. The Council elects a president in June for a one-year term. S/he must have served on the Council at least six months prior to the election. The position of the vice president is a one-year term elected by the Staff Council; committee chairpersons are appointed in July by the Staff Council president. All staff members are encouraged to serve on committees.The Staffline, the monthly online newsletter of the Staff Council, publishes information relating to staff issues. It includes salary news, annual holiday schedules, changes in job classifications, staff recognition events, recreation news, wellness, postings of special events, and news of committee and Council activities.Each time a staff member calls the Staff Council Office or contacts a Staff Council member with a concern about policies, procedures, benefits or other issues, a Contact Sheet is completed. This form is given to the appropriate committee for review and investigation. After the issue is reviewed, the chair of the committee notifies the individual of the outcome.The UVM Staff Council is responsible for many of the changes at UVM that directly affect and benefit all University staff. Through the years, the Council has accomplished numerous changes in University policies to improve working conditions for staff employees. Each achievement comes from working with different combinations of people.We currently have vacancies on the Council. Your application would be appreciated! To be eligible, you must have completed your probationary period and not have served for the last two consecutive terms.Like most large organizations, UVM classifies its staff positions to help supervisors communicate with applicants and employees about jobs, to help determine salaries, and to ensure compliance with laws such as the Fair Labor Standards Act, the Equal Pay Act, the Civil Rights Act, and the Americans With Disabilities Act.The information in this chapter is meant to be a summary of benefits for UVM staff members. In regard to insured benefits, actual plan provisions are contained in the individual insurance/subscriber certificates. In the case of discrepancies, the insurance/subscriber certificate will prevail. UVM reserves the right to amend, alter, or terminate all benefits herein described.Note: An employee is considered to be employed in a regular capacity if the position is continuing, not temporary, and it appears on UVM's position inventory or is an approved hourly position included in the department's wage budget, and a completed and approved position description exists. An employee is considered to be temporary when he or she is paid by electronic payroll systems for temporary employees, whether full-time or part-time, or by time sheets that are designated as temporary.Dependents are considered qualified dependents if they are the spouse, civil union partner, or dependent child of the employee. A spouse or civil union partner will qualify if (i) the marriage or civil union is valid in the jurisdiction in which it was solemnized, and (ii) the marriage or civil union does not violate Vermont law or the express public policy of the State of Vermont.The University will also extend benefits eligibility, for the first 3 months of employment, to the same-sex spousal equivalent of a new employee who comes to UVM from another state where civil unions are not legal. To retain spousal benefits, these employees must enter into a civil union under Vermont law within 3 months of employment.Qualified dependent children are covered until the end of the month after their 19th birthday or their marriage, if earlier. Eligibility may be extended beyond an eligible child's 19th birthday to the 25th birthday as long as the child is otherwise eligible and a full-time student. In addition, eligibility is extended to a child with a disability which prevents the child from being able to obtain meaningful, gainful employment. The dependent must have been eligible for benefits prior to his/her 19th birthday and such disability must occur or exist on the date eligibility would normally end.Proof of such disability must be provided to the medical plan administrator or the insurer prior to the child's 19th birthday, or in any event, no later than 31 days following age 19. If approved, eligibility for such a child will be continued as long as the child lives with the employee.If a child is born or adopted while you are covered, the child will be automatically covered for up to 31 days after the date of birth or placement for adoption. Coverage beyond the 31-day period will be continued provided you enroll the child within 31 days of the date of birth or placement for adoption (and make the necessary contributions, if required).If you enroll within 32 to 60 days following the birth or placement for adoption, the child's membership and the new membership type will become effective on the first of the month following receipt of your enrollment request. If you fail to enroll within 60 days, you must wait until the next open enrollment to do so. To prevent a lapse in coverage, Human Resources/Benefits should be immediately notified and you should complete an enrollment form after the child is born.If a child is born to a covered child while the mother is insured as a dependent child, the birth will be covered and the child will be insured for 31 days after the date of birth. In order for such a grandchild to be covered beyond 31 days, you must adopt the child or be appointed legal guardian for the child.An adopted child is eligible on the date the child is placed in your legal custody. You are considered to have custody when there is a legal document which places the child under your care and protection and the child is in your physical possession. A newborn adopted infant will not be considered to be in your physical possession until the infant is discharged from the hospital immediately following birth.In the case of divorce or dissolution of a civil union, coverage of your former spouse/civil union partner terminates on the date your divorce becomes final or the date on which the civil union partnership ends. Your spouse or civil union partner may be able to extend coverage at the group rate at his/her expense by exercising COBRA rights.If you initiate a temporary reduction of your FTE and remain in benefit groups B or C, it will not affect your insurance coverage. However, vacation and medical leave will be based on your reduced FTE and retirement contributions will be based upon your reduced salary. If you move outside benefit groups B or C (except as described in the policy for Partial Leave for the Purpose of Caring for Members of the Immediate Family), your benefits will be reduced or terminated as appropriate with your benefit group and your length of service. Deductions will begin automatically unless you notify Human Resources/Benefits to discontinue your insurance. This cost is waived for reductions lasting less than 30 calendar days; however to maintain coverage, you must always make your own personal contributions.In order to enroll, you must complete and sign the appropriate applications and submit them to the UVM Benefits Office. Normally, you will be asked to enroll in all benefits except the retirement plan at the new employee orientation which is held every other Monday, usually in Rm. 427A, Waterman Building. If Monday is a holiday, it will be held on Tuesday following the holiday.Your coverage will begin on the date you become eligible if you enroll and agree to pay the required premium within 15 days of your eligibility date. Otherwise, it will become effective on the first of the month following the date upon which the Benefits Office receives your application, provided it is received within 60 days of your eligibility date (30 days for MVP Health Plan, Northeast Delta Dental, life, and long-term disability insurance). If you do not apply within 60 days of your eligibility date (or 31 days for MVP Health Plan, Northeast Delta Dental, life and long-term disability insurance), you must do so during open enrollment for coverage to begin in the new plan year on July 1. Both life and disability insurance require proof of good health and the carrier's approval before your coverage can begin.In the case of life insurance, if you wish to enroll after 31 days of employment, coverage is contingent upon providing proof of insurability to TIAA. In the case of long-term disability insurance, if you do not enroll within 31 days of your eligibility date, you may later enroll although you will be required to show proof of insurability. You must be actively at work on the date you become eligible for coverage. Otherwise, coverage will not begin until you are actively working at UVM in an eligible position for at least 5 consecutive work days. In addition, if a special life event occurs, such as the birth of a child or a marriage, a special open enrollment occurs for long-term disability. Within 31 days of the special life event, employees who previously waived coverage or who elected a lower level of coverage may enroll without proof of insurability.Coverage for eligible dependents will begin when your coverage begins if they meet the definition of dependent on that date unless, as is the case for life insurance in excess of $50,000, proof of insurability is required. If your dependent is hospitalized on the day coverage would begin, medical coverage will not begin until your dependent is discharged from the hospital. If they meet the definition of dependent after coverage begins, you must a