5722018502	The treatment was pioneered in the 1970s by Ole Ivar Lovaas, a clinical psychologist at the University of California at Los Angeles. It involves teaching skills by breaking them down to their tiniest component, then using constant reinforcement and repetition to make sure they stick - much like training a dog. At the same time, antisocial behaviour such as hand-flapping or rocking back and forth is discouraged. Initially, Lovaas did this by using smacking or shouting, though therapists now prefer to reward "good" behaviour by praise.A study of Lovaas's work published in 1987 yielded spectacular - and to some, unbelievable - results. He found that almost half of autistic children who had received 30 to 40 hours of intensive therapy were effectively cured.Children enrolled in an ABA program do continuous drills of every conceivable life skill they need to know, whether it's putting their hand up to ask a question, brushing their teeth or sitting cross-legged on the floor.For the outside observer, it's difficult to comprehend how different the world is for children diagnosed with autistic spectrum disorders, which can range in severity from intellectual disability to the comparatively mild Asperger's syndrome.The world is a frightening and confusing place to the autistic child. They can't make sense of the signals that normal kids learn to filter and interpret, such as body language, facial expressions and noises.One of the most fascinating aspects of autism are the phobias and quirks that children develop. Wong has seen children extremely afraid of hand dryers or the sound of a flushing toilet. They may bite themselves to communicate that they are hungry, or become obsessed with certain colours, like the little boy who only wore red clothes, played with red toys and hoarded red building blocks.Autism typically appears during the first three years of life and affects males more than females, for unknown reasons. And the exact cause is a mystery, though both genetic and environmental factors are thought to be involved. It is estimated to affect 1 per cent of the population, and numbers are thought to be increasing. But again, we don't know why.MANY parents report feeling that something is "not quite right" with their children before they are diagnosed. Renata Marucci, of Hunters Hill, remembers her son Charlie didn't point or babble as a toddler.Charlie, 7, is tall, handsome and blue-eyed; he looks like the sort of kid who would be picked in the first XV rugby team in high school. He's also academically bright, and has an incredibly accurate memory for places and people, even if he has seen them only once.But like other autistic children, he struggles with language and social skills. The first year of therapy Charlie just learnt nouns - chair, table, mum, dad, room, teddy bear. Since then, he has had several "eureka moments", such as when he started to speak in sentences.At present, no ABA programs in Australia receive government funding. Autism is a political hot potato passed between various state and federal government departments, none of which takes full responsibility for funding.Various cost-benefit analyses show that children who have intensive ABA for a minimum of three years can save a government millions over a life span, as they are less dependent on support services in adulthood.The largest provider of government-funded autism services in NSW is an organisation called Aspect, based in the Sydney suburb of Forestville. Aspect does not offer ABA, and even has the reputation of being "anti-ABA".Aspect chief executive Adrian Ford admits four hours a week of early intervention is not a lot, but he maintains that any therapy is beneficial. He says Aspect is providing services to about 1400 of an estimated 12,000 children and young people with autism in NSW."My view is that in pediatrics we may have unanswered questions, but it doesn't stop us from funding relatively expensive therapies when we are treating a serious life-threatening or disabling condition, and there is substantial evidence that at least some children respond well," Couper says.University at Stanislaus was especially damning of the kind of standard "special education" typically funded by governments. It compared children doing ABA with children doing a government-funded mix of speech, occupational and play therapy and found the former made significant improvements, while the latter made none at all.She is wary of raising parents' expectations too high, but tells them they can still be optimistic. "Many professionals give worst-case scenarios. Parents are told to go home and grieve," she says. "We never guarantee recovery, but we do talk about a future."Many experts do not believe in the concept of recovery, saying that autism is a lifelong disorder and that even if children manage to adapt to mainstream society they will always have to manage their autistic traits.At preschool, Camryn is accompanied by a therapist who monitors her behaviour and facilitates her interaction with other kids. At first, the therapist would have to physically restrain Camryn during story time, as she would not sit still. Now, there's no need.When Mao Zedong's communist party assumed power in 1949, one of their top priorities was health care. Sexually transmitted diseases, according to Mao, were a legacy of decadent Western societies. Faced with one of the worst syphilis epidemics in history, Chinese communists worked feverishly to eliminate the disease, which disappeared from China for two decades (1960-1980)."It's surprising that a country which was once striking for its complete absence of STDs (sexually transmitted diseases), now has such a massive problem," says Dr Myron Cohen, one of the study's authors, and director of the Center for Infectious Diseases at the University of North Carolina School of Medicine.The highest rates of syphilis infection were detected in China's richest regions: Shanghai, Beijing, and the rich coastal provinces of Guangdong, Hainan and Zhejiang. All of these numbers, Cohen says, almost certainly underestimate the country's actual problem.Many experts believe the connection between money and disease is hardly coincidental. And with huge numbers of internal migration and changing sexual behaviour, the Chinese population is mixing as never before."This outbreak is the collateral damage of capitalism and a freer society, coupled with lower investments into public health," says Dr John Zenilman, a professor of medicine at Johns Hopkins University.But whereas the outbreaks in these countries have been focused largely in specific groups such as sex workers and gay men, the outbreak in China is a more generalised problem affecting heterosexual men and women.Paradoxically, eliminating syphilis may have complicated current interventions. "You've got this vast pool of people susceptible to syphilis who have no natural or acquired immunity," says Dr David Fisman, a public health expert at the Hospital for Sick Children in Toronto.There is an open secret in medicine - patients lie. They lie about how much they smoke and whether they are taking their medicine. They minimise how much they drink and overstate how much they exercise. They feign symptoms to get appointments quicker and ask doctors to hide the truth from insurance companies.The next few days vanished in a cloud of grogginess. Levine slept through ringing phones and alarms and woke up exhausted. His wrist pain was easing, but he could barely function. Eventually, he stopped the pain killer, returned to the doctor and, under questioning, confessed."The doctor said, 'Why didn't you tell me? I never would have prescribed you that,"' says Levine, who now realises how easily he could have overdosed and died. "For the future, I will always 'fess up.""You're naked in a gown and you have a guy standing there clothed, with a coat on and there's all sorts of things in his pocket. And you're sitting there, basically naked ... that makes it hard to come clean," Sophy says. On top of that, the doctor may be rushed and convey that by the way he or she asks questions.Some researchers estimate more than half of patients tell their doctors they are taking their medicine exactly as prescribed when they are not. In reality, they don't like the side effects, can't afford the pills or don't understand the instructions.Seventy-three per cent of patients reported using the inhaler on average three times a day, but only 15 per cent actually were using it that often. And 14 per cent apparently deliberately emptied their inhalers before their appointments to make it look like they were good patients.University. There's a big difference between "Why aren't you taking the medication as prescribed?" and "A number of my patients don't take their medication as prescribed and they do it for a variety of reasons. What do you think might be going on with you?"When alcoholics seek detox treatment from Dr Akikur Mohammad, an addiction specialist, they must tell him exactly how much they have been drinking so he can give them the right amount of benzodiazepines to treat withdrawal."I tell them, 'You can lie to your friend, you can lie to your family members, but you came here for help and your report will determine the treatment plan. If I undermedicate you, you may have seizures and die,"' Mohammad says.If the patient complains of back pain, the nurse practitioner might press on the patient's head and ask if it hurts. It is not really a way of diagnosing a herniated disc, but a drug-seeking patient might fall for it.Psychologists estimate 30 to 40 per cent of Australians have a fear of flying but we tend to keep it to ourselves. While a small percentage of sufferers avoid air travel altogether, the majority fall into the category of "white knuckle" flyers.Like any anxiety, unchecked aviophobia feeds on anything available - a change in the pitch of the engine, a fleeting look of concern on the face of a flight