5722018458	The Procurement Services Department will ensure that during acquisition of a laser, the LSO has been notified before an order is placed with the vendor. The LSO will also receive a copy of the purchase order, which will detail the laser specifications, safety equipment, and other relevant information included with the laser. The LSO will review this information and maintain a record of laser acquisition.Adherence to the SOP designed by the PI and approved by the LSO for the safe operation of the laser, including the use of goggles and other personal protective equipment appropriate to individual lasers.Program is to comply with the regulations and standards for the safe use of lasers. These regulations and standards vary in their scope and design, list exposure limits, define potentially hazardous conditions, and detail control measures to limit occupational exposures.Federal Laser Performance Standard The basic hazard classification concept was incorporated into federal government regulation issued by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). This standard is found in the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) Title 21 Part 1040.10. This regulation applies to manufacturers of laser products and requires them to minimize hazardous exposure by incorporating certain safety features (protective housing, safety interlocks, emission indicators, etc.) into all laser products.The term laser light classically refers to visible wavelengths of light produced through laser activity. With the development of devices generating wavelengths outside the visible region, the term laser radiation is now used to more accurately describe laser energy in both the visible and non-visible regions of the optical spectrum. The terms can be used interchangeably.Although lasers produce electromagnetic radiation, they are considered non-ionizing radiation sources because of the effects laser energy has on atoms and biological tissue. Ionizing radiation can strip atoms of electrons and create radicals, which can change the nature of molecules and damage tissue.This is a process in which photons produced by atoms and molecules are amplified and emitted. All lasers have three basic physical components: an active medium, an energy source, and a resonant cavity. Each of these components is responsible for a different part of the laser process. The active medium provides the source of light and radiation, the energy source provides the stimulation, and the resonant cavity enables amplification and emission.Active Medium Laser light is generated in an active medium, which can be a solid, liquid, or gas. Only certain types of media have the necessary optical, mechanical, atomic, and/or molecular characteristics to make laser activity possible. For laser action to occur, the majority of the molecules in the active medium have to be brought to a higher energy (excited) state simultaneously.The excitation of the active medium can be done with a variety of energy sources. These power sources elevate the molecules in the active medium to an energetic or excited state and create a condition known as population inversion.This condition occurs when energy is poured into the active medium so rapidly that most of its molecules absorb excess energy. Once this excited state is reached, the molecules are primed to have this energy amplified and released.Energy Source The energy source provides the excitation mechanism for priming and focusing the molecules in an active medium. These energy sources can include electrical discharges, chemical reactions, and high-powered light sources (flash lamps). The type of active medium will determine the nature of the needed excitation device. In general, electrical discharges are needed for gas media (helium-neon, argon, krypton, etc.), chemical energy mechanisms for liquid media, and powerful light sources for crystalline and solid-state media.Resonant Cavity The resonant cavity is the area in the laser where the primary laser activity occurs. The main housing in a laser consists of a short cylinder with mirrors placed on either end. The space between these two mirrors is filled with the excited molecules from the active medium. This space is called the resonant cavity because photons produced by the energized medium bounce back and forth between the mirrors becoming more amplified.One of the mirrors is only partially silvered to allow some light to leave the cavity and escape as a focused beam. The degree to which this mirror allows light to pass depends upon the type of medium being used, the power input from the energy source, and the wavelength of the photons in the cavity. The laser is designed so that enough light is reflected back into the cavity to allow the lasing action to continue.Characteristics of Laser Light Although lasers vary in size and intensity, all laser light has fundamental characteristics, which distinguishes it from natural light. Laser produced light is monochromatic, directional, and coherent. Each of these properties is important for the many scientific, medical, and industrial applications of lasers.Monochromaticity Natural light is composed of a combination of all visible and some non-visible wavelengths (colors). Laser light is described as a monochromatic light source because it consists of only one uniform color found on an extremely narrow band in the optical spectrum.Directionality This is one of the most unusual properties of laser light. A laser beam does not expand or disperse as easily as natural light. The angle of divergence (the rate at which light spreads as it moves away from a source) is small. This makes the laser beam more hazardous than conventional light sources because it maintains its intensity over much longer distances.Coherence The light waves in a laser beam leave the resonant cavity in phase with each other. This uniform spatial relationship between the waves (coherence) amplifies the duration and energy of the beam.Class 1 Lasers A Class 1 laser is a laser that is incapable of emitting laser radiation in excess of 0.4 microwatts. This applies to very low power devices such as those in some semi-conductor diode lasers. Most Class 1 lasers are in this category because they are housed in an enclosure that limits the laser radiation exposure to the Class 1 level. Some of these include laser videodisc players, laser printers, and optical fiber communication systems.Lasers that are more powerful than Class 1, but have limited emissions due to protective enclosures are called embedded lasers. Any removable portion of the protective housing of such lasers has to be secured or interlocked to limit user access to the beam.Class 2- Low Power Lasers Class 2 lasers are not normally considered hazardous unless an individual was to force himself to stare directly into the beam. These lasers have limited energy emissions in the visible region (400 nm to 710 nm) of the optical spectrum. They are low risk because the human aversion response (blinking reflex, 0.25 seconds) to bright light enables a user to limit exposure before damage can be done.In industrial settings, Class 2 lasers are typically used for alignment or to mark the path of more powerful invisible lasers. This application is readily used in the medical setting as well. The AEL for a Class 2 laser is 1.0 milliwatts (mW). If the retina of the eye were exposed to this level of laser energy for a prolonged period of time, some damage could occur. Such exposures, however, are not very likely (primarily because of the blinking reflex). Class 2 lasers are therefore considered to pose a theoretical hazard but not a realistic hazard in most situations.Class 2A Some Class 2 lasers may be used in processes specifically designed to limit exposure to beam emissions. In these situations, the user is allowed an exposure duration less than or equal to 1000 seconds as long as the AEL for Class 1 is not exceeded. These lasers are designated as Class 2A.Class 3- Medium Power Lasers Class 3 lasers are potentially hazardous upon direct and instantaneous exposure of the eye. The beam, if viewed directly, could result in injury within less than the blinking reflex. The Class 3 category is divided into two subcategories: 3A and 3B.They emit energy within the visible spectrum but have power outputs between 1.0 and 5.0 mW. They also include some wavelengths in the ultraviolet and infrared regions as long as the power output is not more than five times the AEL of Class 1 or when using an expanded beam, the AEL is not exceeded if measured by the limiting aperture (determines the diameter of the beam) for that laser wavelength.Class 3B Class 3B lasers include any continuous-wave device with energy outputs above 5.0 mW and less than or equal to 500 mW. These lasers can cause damage with direct intra-beam exposure and from specular or diffuse reflections. Additional performance requirements and safety measures must be taken to provide protection from the energy emissions of these lasers. Some of these precautions include appropriate eye protection for the wavelength being used, beam controls (safety interlocks, enclosures, etc.), and clearly defined emergency procedures. Contact the LSO for more information on the proper methods and requirements for using Class 3B lasers.Class 4-High Power Lasers Class 4 lasers are those devices with power outputs exceeding 500 mW. These devices also include lasers that permit human access during operation to levels of laser radiation in excess of the AEL for Class 3B. The primary hazards to the skin and eyes come from direct beam exposure, and specular and diffuse energy reflections. Most research, medical, and surgical lasers are categorized as Class 4.As with Class 3B lasers, additional performance requirements and safety measures must be taken to provide user protection. These requirements are specific to the type and wavelength of laser device being used. Some of these precautions include the creation of 