5722018478	Some comments stated that psyllium husk is not a food and is not consumed by itself. The comments stated that psyllium husk is an ingredient or additive and, therefore, should not be eligible for a health claim. One comment expressed concern that a health claim on a food additive will put more reliance on food fortification or supplementation as a strategy to improve health. The comment asserted that the psyllium proposal represents a public policy shift that may result in diverting attention from the importance of a varied selection of foods.The agency also disagrees with the comment that the proposed health claim represents a public policy shift in diverting attention from the importance of a varied selection of foods by placing more reliance on food fortification or supplementation to achieve public health goals.The establishment of a health claim for soluble fiber from psyllium husk and CHD, when viewed in conjunction with existing health claims for fruits, vegetables, and grain products and CHD and for soluble fiber from whole oats and CHD, emphasizes an important role (i.e., possible reduced risk of CHD) of an even wider variety of food selections. It is important to note that the concept of formulating a food product with psyllium seed husk is no different than formulating a product with oat bran (another food ingredient supplying soluble fiber that is the subject of an authorized health claim). As with oat bran, the inclusion of psyllium husk in a food would be based on its basic functional properties in addition to its nutritional contribution or potential health benefit. The decision to include such an ingredient in a food would be considered food product development, not fortification.FDA, in reviewing the supplemental data for Refs. 12, 17, and 25, concluded that this information shows the subjects of these three studies were compliant with the dietary protocol and made no significant changes to their diets throughout the duration of the treatment period. Therefore, these studies have been added to the seven studies to which the agency gave particular weight in evaluating the relationship of soluble fiber from psyllium husk and CHD risk in the psyllium husk proposed rule. These studies are summarized in Table 1 of this document. The results of these three additional studies support the relationship between consumption of soluble fiber from psyllium seed husk and reduced risk of heart disease.Jenkins et al. (Ref. 28) that was submitted in comments and has summarized this study accordingly in Table 1 of this document. The investigators evaluated the effect on serum lipid levels of two Step 2 metabolic diets that provided either 6 or 12 percent of energy from monounsaturated fat (MUFA), approximately 60 g per day (/d) total dietary fiber, and psyllium seed husk-containing cereal (mean intake of 11 g/d of psyllium seed husk) or wheat bran. The results showed significantly lower total- and LDL-cholesterol levels in the psyllium husk-supplemented groups compared to the control group at both MUFA levels. The saturated fat intake during the two study periods was very low (less than 6 percent of energy).The experimental design of the study by Ganji and Kies (Ref. 32) did not meet the agency's criteria for comprehensive review. In the psyllium proposal, the agency stated that in evaluating a study, it considered whether the intervention studies had been of long enough duration to reasonably ensure stabilization of blood lipid levels (i.e., greater than or equal to 3 weeks duration) (62 FR 28234 at 28237). In this study, diets were varied in four 7-day treatment periods with no time between treatment periods. With this study design, it cannot be determined whether the subjects' blood lipids had stabilized to each diet or that there were no carryover effects from one treatment period to another. Neither did the study design have an adequate pre-intervention baseline period to ensure blood lipids had stabilized to the base diet.The other three studies submitted in comments that were not reviewed indepth were animal studies (Refs. 29 through 31). Animal studies are useful in studying mechanisms of action. However, the agency relied primarily on the clinical studies in this rule. Such an approach is consistent with that taken by the agency in its evaluation of the relationship between soluble fiber from whole oats and risk of CHD.A meta-analysis (Ref. 34) was conducted to determine the effect of psyllium seed husk-containing cereal products on serum lipid levels in hypercholesterolemic subjects and to estimate the magnitude of the effect among 404 subjects with mild to moderate hypercholesterolemia (total-cholesterol of about 200 to 300 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL) who followed a low fat diet. In its review of the evidence submitted in the psyllium petition, the agency reviewed 6 of the 11 studies (Refs.One comment stated that there was considerably more scientific data on psyllium seed husk presented in the petition than that reviewed by the agency. The comment noted that results of 56 studies were included in the psyllium petition. The comment expressed concern that the agency failed to consider studies published prior to 1988 and some additional evidence made available since 1988, noting that studies with soluble fiber mixtures, studies with treatment periods that were less than 3 weeks in duration, and abstracts were not selected for comprehensive review. The comment stated that the agency began its review of the scientific evidence by first considering the conclusions of the Surgeon General's report and the Food and Nutrition Board/National Academy of Sciences (FNB/NAS) report (Refs. 3 and 4) and then considered the evidence that was made available since 1988. The comment explained that neither the Surgeon General's report nor the FNB/NAS report reviewed the evidence on psyllium up to 1988; therefore, the agency improperly ignored a significant portion of the scientific evidence provided in the petition (see Ref. 35, Table 3, pages 30 and 31). Another comment noted that among the 56 studies submitted in the psyllium petition (see Ref. 35), the results of only three failed to demonstrate that consumption of psyllium-containing foods was associated with risk of CHD through a reduction in serum cholesterol. The comment stated that the totality of evidence on psyllium husk that was submitted in the petition includes data on children and the elderly.Some comments stated that it is premature to authorize a claim on psyllium seed husk and risk of CHD because of a lack of significant scientific agreement on this nutrient/disease relationship. Some of these comments stated that the decision to propose this health claim is based on evidence from a limited number of studies that overall covered a small number of subjects, of which women were underrepresented, and on the absence of data on certain subpopulations (children and the elderly).In each of the pre-1989 clinical studies meeting the selection criteria, there were aspects of the study design (e.g., lack of dietary data, lack of a control group) that would have precluded the results of these studies from having a major influence on the agency's conclusions. Among the pre-1989 clinical studies was one double-blind placebo-controlled psyllium husk study with dietary data (Ref. 36).However, the report contained no evidence that the study subjects were compliant with a low saturated fat and cholesterol diet. Thus, a review by FDA of pre-1989 data would not have altered the conclusions reached by the agency in the psyllium husk proposed rule nor contribute to issuing the final rule.In the psyllium husk proposed rule, the agency included in its evaluation the results of studies of this nutrient/disease relationship in which psyllium was administered as a product marketed as a bulk- forming fiber laxative.Some comments were opposed to the consideration of studies in which psyllium husk was supplied as a bulk-forming fiber laxative. One comment stated that the use of studies in which psyllium seed husk was consumed in different forms makes meaningful comparisons difficult.One comment stated that consuming psyllium husk as a bulk-forming fiber laxative at mealtime is functionally equivalent to consuming a psyllium husk-enriched food at mealtime. Another comment stated that clinical studies evaluating psyllium seed husk administered as a bulk-forming fiber laxative were conducted in a fashion similar to studies conducted with food products, including consuming the substance at mealtime, dietary counseling, and patient selection criteria. The comment stated that both compliance with the regimen and efficacy were comparable for food and laxative studies.Some comments agreed with the agency's view that studies of populations with elevated blood cholesterol are relevant to the general population. These comments cited current statistics of the incidence of elevated blood cholesterol in the U.S. population, and noted that the CHD risk factor that is the target of the proposed health claim is elevated blood cholesterol. Other comments disagreed with the view that the results of studies in hypercholesterolemics can be generalized to the general population. One comment stated that because hypercholesterolemic individuals are generally more responsive to dietary intervention that normocholesterolemic individuals, it is questionable whether normocholesterolemic persons would respond to psyllium at all.As the leading cause of death in this country, CHD is a disease for which the general U.S. population is at risk. The risk of dying from CHD is related to serum cholesterol levels in a continuous and positive manner, increasing slowly for levels between 150 mg/dl and 200 mg/dl and more rapidly when the cholesterol level exceeds 200 mg/dl (Ref.One comment stated that Sec. 101.81 should not be expanded to include soluble fiber from psyllium husk because the eligible sources