5722018500	Some of South Florida's most affordable homes are in that middle corridor, in Opa-locka, North Miami, Lauderdale Lakes and Lauderhill, the Herald analysis showed. Many lower-priced new homes will also be found in deep South Miami-Dade, where construction is booming. But Taylor decides that South Dade is too far, since he runs his company  from an office on Biscayne Boulevard in North Miami.He wanders around the backyard. It needs cosmetic work, but there's a built-in pool and a concrete patio. Taylor, who loves to entertain, closes his eyes for a moment. He can hear the music and smell the burgers and hot dogs grilling up.The perceptions of sellers may not have caught up with the cooling market -- another factor that might keep the region unaffordable. As things slow down, sellers -- and builders -- will have to adjust, says Ned Murray, the FIU professor who directed the Broward affordability study.These Miami homes are an experiment in creating housing workers can afford. The city gave the developers vacant land for free. The exchange: They must sell the houses they build to buyers who make less than about $33,000.As the problem of finding affordable housing spreads to the middle class, it is also drawing more attention. High housing prices are making it harder for companies to relocate to South Florida; for hotels and restaurants to staff up; for teachers and police officers to find homes.But it's also harder than ever to find solutions, because they must now address not just the low-income but also professionals and even mid-level executives. ''Affordable'' used to mean 80 percent or less of the mid-priced household income; now some programs would take it all the way up to 140 percent, or about $65,000.Under the 1992 Sadowski Act, whenever a tax stamp is levied on real estate documents -- for instance, when a house is sold -- a portion goes into a trust fund for various affordable housing programs, from new construction and home repairs to down payment assistance. The fund is projected to hold as much as $940 million for 2006-2007.Some legislators say the cap gives the state money for emergencies like a busy hurricane season. Gov. Jeb Bush wants the cap raised this year. But he still supports a cap, saying the money should not be limited to a single use.Brisas Del Mar, a 160-unit rental apartment for the elderly, went up two years ago on the western flank of the Miami River with the help of trust fund money. The Flagler Street complex is now full, with a waiting list of .Under a Miami-Dade proposal, developers who build new houses or condos in unincorporated parts of the county must reserve a percentage of units for households earning 65 to 140 percent of the median income. The proposal is expected to come to a vote in April.This measure, dubbed ''inclusionary zoning,'' is growing popular. Fort Lauderdale rolled out a similar proposal this week, and several other cities are privately discussing one, Kocy said. The city of Miami also plans to unveil such an ordinance in the next few months.The slew of new condos has driven up property taxes 18.7 percent in Miami-Dade County in the past year. But rental apartments get taxed at the same rate as new condos, making it harder for owners to keep rents low, said Miami Mayor Manny Diaz.With this idea, builders of commercial projects would pay a one-time ''linkage'' fee, similar to an impact fee for roads and schools, into an affordable housing fund. To date, only residential developers have been pegged to deal with the affordable housing.Just this week, the Broward County Commission took up the idea. And Miami-Dade Commissioner Barbara Jordan is crafting legislation for a linkage program that could come to a vote in April. Builder groups are currently negotiating with Jordan's office.One of the toughest obstacles to creating affordable housing is not always funding, but the price of land. This is prompting some to propose creating community land trusts run by non-profits, county or local government.Two such trusts have been set up in the Florida Keys, in Marathon and Key West. The idea has also been done on a small-scale by the Miami-based Collins Center for Public Policy, which purchased several acres in Miami's Overtown area.Housing built on the land, for instance, could be rented or sold to people in targeted income brackets. Someone purchasing a home would actually be buying what amounts to a long-term lease on the land.How it works: The government awards tax credits to a developer. The developer then sells the tax credits to companies,. So they get money for new building, but they must then build affordable housing.So the 49-year old, who's disabled, went to Miami-Dade's Government Center in search of a new place to live. She spotted a yellow flyer on the ground advertising a low-rent apartment under construction on the outskirts of Miami's Overtown neighborhood.In November she moved into Tuscan Place, a one-bedroom apartment at the new 199-unit apartment complex, replete with fitness center and computer room. The project was built by private developers with financial contributions from the city of Miami and county. She pays $449 a month in rent, making ends meet with help from her children.Cities there remain among the least expensive places to buy a home, according to a Miami Herald analysis of home sales over the past five years. Planners, politicians and developers are betting people already priced out of trendier neighborhoods will flock to town homes and condos that will be built along and near the middle.A 2004 study by the Urban Land Institute concluded State Road 7, also known as U.S. 441, could hold tens of thousands of new homes and help satisfy the region's insatiable hunger for housing. After years of talk, that demand has finally started the bulldozers rolling.The revival has been a long time coming. For decades, developers concentrated first on the eastern waterfront of both counties and then the western fringes, where new subdivisions rapidly sprouted out of marshland. They skipped over the middle, which was farther from the water and had no fresh ground for new homes.Lennar has two town-home developments planned in Oakland Park, another long-overlooked, less-than-sexy community just east of 441. As gentrification and the berserk South Florida housing market have driven prices out of reach in hipper neighboring cities such as Fort Lauderdale and Wilton Manors, Oakland Park is becoming another hot spot.A recent posting on craigslist advertising condos for rent in Opa-locka hints at the possible future: ''The neighborhood is rapidly improving due to the many developers building new town homes and condos in the area.'' And homeowners in Opa-locka report receiving calls and letters enticing them to sell their properties.People will also have to give up, or at least change, their idea of the American Dream. There simply aren't enough big tracts of land for single-family homes. Development will be vertical, with condos and town houses.Miller pocketed a $21.5 million bonus last year, among the heftiest rewards given to any executive in any industry nationwide. The bonus accounted for about two-thirds of his overall compensation of $31.9 million. He received a $15.2 million bonus in 2004.All of which raises the question: Did the home builders? performance have more to do with market conditions or those at the helm? After all, low interest rates and lenders? looser lending requirements are largely credited with fueling the housing market.Two top Burger King Corp. executives' compensation included the cost to be flown on a company-leased airplane due to a ``company-mandated hurricane evacuation.'' The company declined to disclose the category of storm that would force executives to leave town in the future.Among them: That Chaves sold real estate to a Rica subsidiary for $5.9 million - a portion of which may have been advanced to Chaves prior to the closings, one filing states. The committee also is looking at whether the subsidiary guaranteed loans made to Chaves.Company loans to executives are pretty much a thing of the past, thanks to the pay reforms that took effect a few years back. But some old loans remain outstanding. Davie's Andrx Corp. awarded Lawrence Rosenthal, president of its pharmaceuticals division, a $17,700 ``bonus'' last year so he could repay a loan it made to him in 1998.Within the span of a month and a half this year, three former top Ener1 executives each sued the Fort Lauderdale company claiming it breached their employment agreements. Former Chairman and Chief Executive Kevin Fitzgerald, former division President Pankaj Dhingra and ex-Chief Financial Officer A. Ernest Toth Jr. each say they are entitled to additional compensation from the company, which specializes in alternative energy. Their cases are pending.Sun American Bancorp hired Ron Golden, brother of CEO Michael Golden, as its vice president of construction lending. Brett Golden, Michael Golden's son, doesn't work at Sun American, but his firm received more than $2 million from the company last year for handling three of its private placements.AutoNation President Mike Maroone and his dad, Al, own half of the common shares in an aircraft charter company that the auto retailer paid $179,000 in fees last year. Maroone had no involvement in the selection of Florida Jet Service, the proxy statement says. Rather, a third-party aviation services company that manages AutoNation's air transportation chose Florida Jet.But only after winning the proxy fight and seizing control in December did the brothers behind Illinois-based Esmark Inc. find out how bad things really were at the steel company - and how much harder a turnaround would be.The order book for the first quarter of 2007 was virtually nonexistent, a mere 10,000 tons of steel requested from a company that ordinarily ships more than a half-million tons per quarter. And the crown jewel, an electric furnace wort