5722018459	"There is no place this sad morning for any discussion other than an immediate and unconditional cease-fire, as well as an international investigation into the Israeli massacres in Lebanon now," Siniora said.In the Palestinian territory, the armed wing of Palestinian Authority President Mahmud Abbas's Fatah faction said today it will target the United States and other Western countries after the deadly Israeli raid on Qana.It also comes as Rice arrived in the region for talks with Israeli and Lebanese leaders on ending the violence. She had hoped to raise the possibility of deploying an international force along the border zone dividing southern Lebanon and Israel, but her chances of success -- never high -- now look remote.A Red Cross rescuer carries the body of child killed in the July 30 Israeli air strike in Qana (epa)The persistence of Israel in what he called "its heinous crimes" against Lebanese civilians would not break the will of the people. Now, he said, was the time for unity "in the face of the Israeli war criminals."France, Britain, the European Union, and Jordan are among those condemning the Qana strike. Jordan's King Abdullah called Qana "an ugly crime," and France has drawn up a draft UN Security Council resolution calling for an immediate cessation of hostilities."We will continue with our offensive, and I want to announce that after all the time that passed and the persistence from the Israeli enemy, we reached the stage of Haifa," said Hizballah leader Hassan Nasrallah on July 25. "But now I announce that we will be entering a stage that is beyond Haifa. So, this is a new stage that the enemy has forced upon us.""Israel is determined to carry on the fight against Hizballah," said Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert a day earlier. "We'll reach out for them; we'll stop them; and we will not hesitate to take the most severe measures against those who are aiming thousands of rockets and missiles against innocent civilians for one purpose -- to kill them. This is something that we will not be able to tolerate."On the one hand, popular support for Hizballah on the streets of Cairo, Amman, and Riyadh is growing. On the other hand, those countries fear Iran, and they would hate to see the Shi'ite militants emerge from this conflict victorious.U.S. troops inspect the site of the October 1983 bombing of a military barracks in Beirut (AFP)France and Germany this week ruled out sending any soldiers on a stabilization mission to southern Lebanon, in case of a truce. French President Jacques Chirac spoke out against using NATO. He said the alliance, unfortunately, is seen in the region as "the armed wing of the West."Both the United States and France have painful memories of the last time they sent troops to Lebanon, to try to stabilize the situation, in the early 1980s. Two hundred and forty-one U.S. Marines were killed when their headquarters were bombed in Beirut in 1983. Another strike on the French multinational force headquarters killed 58 French troops. Both attacks were blamed on Hizballah militants."The civilian population remains the main victim of the prevailing security situation," Magazzeni told journalists. "Law enforcement agencies do not provide effective protection to the population of Iraq and, increasingly, miliitias and criminal gangs act in collusion with or have infiltrated the security forces.""But, of course, it is tragic when there [are] innocent civilians losing their lives in Iraq," Blair said. "You know, hundreds of thousands of them lost their lives, innocent people, under Saddam. Now, thousands of them are losing their lives, but they are losing their lives because terrorists and because internal extremists, linking up with external extremists, are killing them. It is not British and American soldiers that are killing innocent people. We are trying to protect innocent people."General George Casey did not say how many troops arrived today. He said the deployments may not yield quick results, but added that he expected the situation in Iraq to improve through the summer and fall."Together, we and the Iraqis have committed sufficient reliable security forces here to ensure that we succeed," Casey said. "And finally, as with any plan, there are no guarantees of success, and it is not going to happen overnight. But with sustained political support and the concentrated efforts on all sides, I believe that this plan can work."The roughly 90 female delegates could be spotted easily among the more than 300 members of the bicameral parliament at the opening session of the Afghan National Assembly. Twenty-seven-year-old Malalai Joya, representing the western Farah Province in the lower house, was among them.His trial started on July 31. Uzbek authorities say 187 people -- including many security officers -- died during the May 2005 antigovernment uprising in Andijon. But rights groups say troops killed hundreds of unarmed civilians."[Hasanov] called at around 18:00 [on August 11] and told me two high-ranking officers from the Interior Ministry's Antiterrorism and Antireligious Extremism Department sent him a driver and asked him to come [to an agreed location]," Ikramov said. "The conversation ran about me. They told Dadakhon that he should refuse my help and that my participation in his trial should stop. In exchange, they promised his sentence would be [reduced, or] commuted."After the Uzbek government indicated earlier this summer that it was interested in talks, an EU "fact-finding" mission visited Tashkent earlier this week. RFE/RL spoke on September 1 to the head of the EU delegation, Finnish diplomat Antti Turunen. Turunen indicated that the visit, although inconclusive, were promising enough for the EU to "analyze" to see if the sanctions imposed on Uzbekistan in the wake of last year's bloody events in Andijon could be lifted.Uzbek authorities refused to allow an independent, international inquiry into the killings, prompting the EU to impose sanctions on the country in October. The sanctions include a freeze on all political contacts, aid cuts, and visa bans on officials held responsible for the events in Andijon and their cover-up.Turunen said the EU visit took place in response to "suggestions" that Uzbekistan is willing to resume contacts. The suggestion was made by and Uzbek deputy foreign minister on a visit to Helsinki in June -- just before Finland assumed the EU presidency."They indicated [then] that there would be possibilities to again resume ministerial level dialogue, that they might be willing to again discuss all aspects of EU-Uzbek relations, including the events in Andijon," he said.The EU delegation then held a series of meetings with officials at the Ministry of Justice, representatives of the Attorney General's office, and Uzbek parliament members. Overall, Turunen said, the atmosphere was "rather good.""Well, it seems that at the moment the issue with the international inquiry is not on the agenda as such," he said. "They are to a certain extent open to discuss on expert level the events that took place in Andijon and we have to now see what this amounts to, what concrete steps towards that direction could be taken.""The other issue is they are now willing to engage on human rights, to establish some kind of human rights dialogue or regular meetings on human rights issues which, in itself, is a positive signal," he said.Turunen said it is not clear to the EU what has prompted the Uzbek government's apparent change of heart. He said the EU's assumption is that Uzbekistan is trying to overcome its isolation. Turunen noted the country, landlocked and far from the developed world, needs international partners for trade and investment.EU officials have said before Uzbekistan's energy resources could be of interest to the EU. Turunen said the issue of Uzbek energy reserves was not "directly" raised during his visit. But, he added, "one might assume in the longer run they look forward to EU investment in this area.""But, of course, there are many, many open cases on human rights, and we have to now carefully look into what has really been done and what recommendations of [the] international community have been implemented," he said. "That will be part of the assessment of the sanctions regime and on the basis of that assessment a decision on the fate of the sanctions will be made by mid-November."Turunen said that should the EU decide to lift the sanctions -- something that is far from certain at this stage -- a "Cooperation Council" meeting with Foreign Minister Norov could take place in Brussels later this autumn. Under the now mostly suspended EU-Uzbek Partnership and Cooperation Agreement, the two sides held yearly ministerial-level meetings.When the Internet emerged in 1990, it brought with it hopes that it would sweep away obstacles to the free flow of information. The reality has proved more ambiguous, with a glut of information sowing confusion, a digital divide underscoring the persistence of economic inequality, and government-imposed filters limiting access.Several long-standing independent websites have recently stopped functioning. These include Tribune.uz, which posted a message to readers on July 4 informing them that the site, which has been blocked in Uzbekistan since May 2005, will cease operations; Arena, a press freedom site that has not been updated since June 2006; and Free Uzbekistan.But a number of new websites provide a forum for exiled Uzbek journalists to give their perspective on events in their homeland. Journalists whose articles appear on these sites include a number of former correspondents for the Institute for War and Peace Reporting (IWPR) who have since relocated to the United States and Europe such as Galima Bukharbayeva, Yusuf Rasul, Tulqin Qoraev, and Hurmat Bobojon, as well as former BBC correspondent Matluba Azamatova. Many materials are cross-posted, appearing simultaneously on several of the sites listed belo