5722018507	High Consequence Systems are systems whose state spaces contain failure states that are associated with unacceptable consequences (e.g., loss of life, loss of national security, unacceptable financial losses, etc.). By definition, high consequence failures are failures that, if necessary, system developers are willing to spend a considerable amount of energy, effort, and resources in order to avoid.High Assurance Systems have demanding requirements either to ensure the safety of the users and environment or for economic survivability of the roduct. Requirements are typically in the form of safety, high reliability, permanent availability, real-time constraints, security, and fault-tolerance.Systems Engineering is a discipline that focuses on the processes, methods, and tools needed to design, implement, integrate, and test complete systems. It requires cross-disciplinary expertise, ranging from formal methods and software engineering to experimental validation and hardware design."suitable assurance" (e.g., high assurance) must be provided that the system will not experience failure - or failing that, that the probability of experiencing a failure is "acceptably low". In the high consequence realm, providing "suitable assurance" that a system failure will be "acceptably low" can be extremely difficult. Unless great care is taken, providing "suitable assurance" approaches and often exceeds what is possible given current state of the art techniques (e.g., formal methods or first principle system design), and the term "acceptably low" translates to reliability values that exceed the grasp of reliability techniques.A promising approach to overcoming these problems is to integrate specific system engineering practices with suitable (complimentary) techniques for providing the necessary assurance that the specific high consequence system under consideration satisfies its requirements. The HASE Symposium is a forum for discussion of systems engineering issues specifically relating to high consequence and high assurance systems. Examples of high assurance applications include large complex systems such as flight control systems, medical surgery equipment, unmanned air vehicles, military command and control, nuclear reactors, and secure telecommunication devices, as well as dedicated embedded systems such as vehicle braking, pacemakers, traffic-light control, MEMS, micro-robots, and satellites.Over the past decade, substantial research has gone into the design of general-purpose microprocessors embodying parallelism at the instruction-level, as well as aggressive compiler optimization and analysis techniques for harnessing this parallelism. Growing demand for high performance in embedded systems is creating new opportunities to leverage technologies such as instruction-level parallelism (ILP) or Explicitly Parallel Instruction Computing (EPIC).Examples of application areas with the need for high performance and application specific embedded computing include set-top boxes, hand-held games, mobile and web appliances, and advanced automotive systems.As in the first two workshops, this year's workshop will address all issues related to software and system architectures, ranging from tool support, design methodologies to organisational concerns. The aim of the workshop is to bring together practitioners and researchers to discuss these architecture issues, exchange ideas and experiences and explore future directions. In particular, the workshop encourages submissions reporting industrial experiences in practising software and system architectures.To make the discussion effective, workshop attendance is limited to 40 and is by invitation on the basis of a submitted paper. Authors are encouraged to address any aspects of software architecture in their contributions.Submissions can be position papers, extended abstracts or full papers (up to 12 pages with a minimum 11pt font). All submissions will be peer-reviewed. The accepted contributions will be published in the workshop proceedings, and will also be available at the workshop Web site (http://www.pscit.monash.edu.au/research/softsys/awsa00/). It is hoped that selected papers from the workshop will be recommended for inclusion in a special issue of a selected journal after revision and extension.TOOLS Pacific 2000 is now soliciting contributions on all aspects of object-oriented technology. All submitted papers will be refereed and judged not only according to standards of technical quality but also on their usefulness to practitioners and applied researchers.TUTORIALS: a TOOLS tutorial is typically half a day in length, although full day tutorials are also possible.  The tutorial should address a single topic and have a clearly-defined target audience. The presenter should have proven experience that qualifies him or her to give the tutorial. Proposals for tutorials should identify the topic, the audience and the relevant experience of the presenter. Proposals should be submitted by email, in plain text, and should be around 2-3 pages in length. A tutorial will usually involve a variety of activities for those attending.Proposals for workshops should identify the theme, those who would benefit from attending, and the relevant experience of the convener. Proposals should be submitted by email, in plain text, and should be around 2-3 pages in length.PANELS: panels are usually 90 minutes in length. A panel of experts address a particular topic to the benefit of the panelists and their audience. Proposals for panels should identify the topic, describe the qualities of the proposed chair, list those who will be invited to be panelists, and explain how the panel will operate and, in particular, the proposed extent of audience participation - a panel is NOT an opportunity solely for the panellists to give mini-lectures. Proposals should be submitted by email, in plain text, and should be around 2-3 pages.Board (ISEB)  of the British Computer Society has accredited the standard full course for  delegates at Quality Week Europe with some experience in testing, who wish to take the examination leading to the Foundation Certificate in Software Testing.  The course will take 18 hours including the "closed book" exam which consists of forty multiple-choice questions.  The exam will be offered during the conference supervised by an ISEB proctor.Internet Quality Week/Europe Conferences that focus on advances in internet & software test technology, quality control processes, software system safety and risk management, WebSite performance and reliability, and improved software process.QWE2000 seeks to promote internet & software quality by providing technological education and opportunities for information and exchange of experience within the software development and testing community.Please include with your submission: o  The paper title, complete postal mailing and e-mail address(es), and telephone and FAX number(s) of each author. o  The primary author -- who is presumed to be the presenter -- should be named first. o  Three keywords or key phrases that describe the paper. o  A brief biographical sketch of each author. o  One photo [of the primary author].Following each group of papers on a given topic, there is serious and in-depth discussion of the topic area, the work described in the presentations, and the implications for future research. WCRE attendees are not passive observers; we are active participants in discussing and shaping future directions of the reverse engineering and reengineering fields.WCRE strongly encourages electronic submissions.  To submit a paper, please send an electronic mail message with the title of the paper, the list of authors, and a contact phone number and e-mail to: wcre2000@swen.uwaterloo.ca Please, do not include the paper in the message.  By return mail, you will receive instructions on how to ftp your submission.At least one author of each accepted paper must register and attend the conference.  That registration is due with the camera-ready final copy before the paper is printed in the proceedings. By submitting a paper for consideration, you acknowledge and accept these requirements.NOTE: WCRE recognizes that the 2000 location in Australia may cause difficulties for some North American and European authors with severe travel limitations.  To avoid restricting this important juried publication opportunity, WCRE 2000 has the option of accepting a limited number of papers where the authors cannot attend at Brisbane in person, but will instead give their paper by videotape presentation (and register at a special rate).  To be considered for this option, you must inform the WCRE chairs at the time your paper is submitted, but please do not list it on the paper in any way.The proceedings are to be published by Springer-Verlag in the LNCS series.  In addition to regular papers, we hope to accept posters, which will appear as two-page abstracts in the proceedings.  Papers and posters must be presented at the conference by one of the authors.More details can be found on the conference webpage. In addition, a separate e-mail message should be sent containing the paper title and an abstract (at most 150 words), authors, keywords, postal address, e-mail address and fax number.Papers should describe original work, and be 20 double-spaced pages  (5,000 words) or less in length. All accepted submissions will appear in the proceedings published by IEEE. The best papers from the conference will be considered for publication in a special issue of a journal (to be decided).RTSS 2000 will also include an industrial exhibition in a centrally located space, for vendors to demonstrate state-of-the-art systems, development tools, and applications, where RTSS attendees can engage in technical discussions with product engineers and developers.We will be discussing our current SERC project entitled TechWatch.  This project is an attempt to review the past a