5722018508	Qualified candidates will have a minimum of five years non-profit experience in positions of increasing responsibility, an exemplary track record in funding development through grant writing, individual solicitations, and marketing, in-depth knowledge of the performing arts, and excellent written and verbal communication skills. Salary based upon experience."Since space is accessed through the channels of visualizing technologies and representational surfaces, what are the struggles--for voice, materialization, control--registered therein?" they ask.  "Networked space is embroiled in, and constituted as, a struggle for the setting of the terms.The site includes "An Interview with Philip Glass" a video-on-the-web experience. The netcast is the first in a series of videos placed on the web in cooperation with Free Speech TV, a progressive television/cyberspace organization."Soon OffLine will have a regular space in the gallery for visiting artists," they write by email.  "Be sure to look for our future call for works - we will be looking for original and unusual art projects for accessible viewing on the web. "ROUNDUP is one of many in the United States, that serves as a gathering for real cowboys that have the unique ability to put their life experiences into the form of written poems and gather for a weekend of fun and entertainment for those that wish to experience this unique art form in live performance.Written on their web site at http://www.zekes.com/~kokopeli are these unattributed words: "Pardon me," but I suppose you might be wonderin' what all the fuss is, about a bunch of cowboys gettin' together to recite poetry,"The first time I went to hear 'em, I sure had my doubts that a cowpoke could really have much to say worth listenin' to, especially  having lived around 'em most of my life here in southern Arizona.  I imagined cowboys to be a crusty type not in tune with the finer aspects of the English language.Democrats on the subcommittee, led by Rep. Sidney R. Yates (IL), managed to eliminate language that specified that the $10 million was to be used "for orderly closure,"  according to the Post. Yates attempted to raise the appropriation back to $99.5 million but was defeated in another 6 to 5 vote.The Post reports that since the Senate is prepared to renew the current NEA budget, the fate of the agency will probably be decided in the fall when a conference committee works out differences between the Senate and House versions of cultural funding legislation."Amici submit this brief to stress the vital importance of public availability of artistic works, whose exhibitors are now subject to criminal prosecution under the CDA's prohibitions on the creation, display or transmission to minors via the Internet of "indecent" or "patently offensive" material," the VLA states.The brief goes on to say that "While amici do not quarrel with the CDA to the extent that it covers hard-core obscenity or child pornography, which were already proscribed  before the CDA's adoption....the CDA's prohibitions on the creation,  display or transmission of 'indecent' and 'patently offensive' images and communications on the Internet unconstitutionally burden the creation and dissemination of art......the CDA sweeps so broadly and vaguely as to act as a virtual ban on a substantial amount of artistic expression, violating the constitutional rights of both adults and minors to receive and transmit such speech. ""Music education is not a luxury," said VH1 President, John Sykes, according to AMC. "We now have solid proof that early music instruction builds brain power and positively affects basic math and verbal skills.  VH1 is committed to getting this important message across to our viewers and to the decision makers in our government."Simon & Schuster Education Group, Viacom's publishing operation has donated music textbooks and literature as well as CD recordings to the program.  The materials are being donated by Silver Burdett Ginn, Simon & Schuster's K-8 publishing division, which is the leading elementary music publisher."Too many schools have put music education on the back burner," the AMC quotes Ralph Caulo, President of Simon & Schuster's Education Group as saying.  "We hope that as VH1 Save the Music expands, the program will kick start the rejuvenation of music instruction nationwide."VH1 has a long history of charitable and community relations efforts, and has given millions of dollars in donations to various causes, including AIDS research, breast cancer research and the Special Olympics.  VH1 produces and programs a wide variety of music-based series, specials, live events and acquisition based programming. Time Warner Cable in New York City serves over one million cable customers in Manhattan, Queens, Staten Island and portions of Brooklyn.In the fall of 1996, the Confederation circulated a position paper that called for the establishment of a trade association for the arts. The paper proposed an organizational structure that would be more aggressive in raising money from private individuals and which could participate more fully in the electoral arena. The Confederation's organizing effort was seized by members of the field who wanted to make a fresh start and build a new organization from the ground up. Now, less than a year later, the CAA has been formed by members from the state's arts service organizations."explicitly political" and that will offer the field "an inclusive, encompassing" voice in Sacramento.  Kathy Lynch who has served as the Confederation's lobbyist for the past six years has been retained by the CAA thereby insuring, they believe, strong representation for the arts and historical continuity with the legislature.For much of its twenty years of service, the Confederation has had to defend the arts from budget cuts and narrow, often reactionary, thinking. "We were successful in maintaining the budget of the California Arts Council when other states like New York, Michigan, Texas, and Massachusetts sustained deep cuts or complete elimination," they state. "We sought to develop the public policy muscle of the arts overall and to bring our members into needed dialogue about artists' rights and cultural equity.....The result is that California's advocates for the arts are in a stronger position than their national counterparts to make significant gains in the next decade."A Library of Resources includes Periodicals; Reference books; Alumni contact files; Referral network; Grant and residency lists; Exhibition opportunities; Teaching resources; Resources for women artists and much more.They run a 6,000 square foot facility with a gallery, studios, library, school, and administrative offices.  The gallery program trains emerging artists to prepare professional quality shows, enhancing their business and professional skills.  They also run an Alternative Gallery program that features fifty artists, and places art in the workplace of thirty businesses, including the public buildings in the cities of Eureka and Arcata.Dorothy Dandridge - the glamorous African American actress who broke down color barriers on the movie screen and was a Hollywood sensation - is again one of the hottest names in the columns and on entertainment TV shows, although she died nearly thirty years ago. "Dorothy Dandridge represented a breakthrough in motion picture history," states Bogle. Some of today's top stars are said to be vying to play Dandridge on screen. Magazines from Vogue to Essence to Newsweek and Entertainment Weekly have done pieces on the "Dandridge phenomenon."A limited number of grants up to $10,000 are available to artists working outside an arts organization to support projects which will culminate with public participation or presentation in San Francisco by December 1998.Dance/USA seeks individual to provide government affairs and publications support to the communications department. Government Affairs responsibilities include: tracking issues and news pertaining to the dance field and not-for-profit arts sector; acting as a liaison between the American Arts Alliance, Dance/USA and its membership; and coordinating grassroots activities.Dance/USA seeks receptionist and general administrative support person for fast paced office. Individual must be able to handle multiple projects simultaneously. Experience in WordPerfect and Paradox desirable. Salary: high teens. Full benefits package.NPR is seeking a Business Developer To formulate and implement New Media marketing plan; develop, negotiate, and manage new business relationships between NPR and various companies operating on the Internet or within the online environment; maintain relationships with potential partners, acting as liaison between NPR and outside companies.Bachelor's degree or equivalent, relevant experience required.  Marketing and new business development experience with Web sites, online service providers, and/or Internet related companies required.  Audio and visual quality standards, audio editing, image generation and digital audio skills required.  Good communications skills.  Works well as part of team or on their own.  Minimum 2 years experience with various computer operating systems, including  UNIX, Windows, NT, Mac, and/or DOS; strong oral and written communications skills; strong organizational skills and ability to work under tight deadlines required.  Working knowledge of HTML, FTP site management, Telnet experience preferred.  Electronic Publishing or graphic design experience preferred.A Director of Development is sought for two prominent nonprofit literary publishers located at Illinois State University.  Requirements include 5-7 years experience and demonstrated successful record of raising money, particularly in the arts and/or education. The Director will develop funding strategies and then implement plans, along with the directors of the presses and boards."If you've seen the issues mailed last year, you kn