5722018463	TSL has recently become involved in the Africa Mining Network, which is one of two activities being undertaken in Africa under Project M of the UN Development Account which addresses issues relating to sustainable mineral-based development. TSL and CEESP are expected to play a key role under a number of themes that have been agreed on for activities and discussion groups: small-scale and artisan mining (sustainable livelihoods, etc), environment (biodiversity, land use, protected areas, etc), gender, governance (co-management and participation generally), human resources (learning sites, capacity building, etc), society (local economic development/sustainable livelihoods).The Network will support on-going and emerging mining-related initiatives, such as the Africa Mining Partnership, which aim at addressing the many economic, environmental and social issues that mineral operations raise in Africa. It will be a web-based, multi-stakeholder forum. The public will have read-only access. Among other things, the Network will provide database search and submit facilities, with notification of new materials as well as training and capacity-building facilities, with teaching materials and distance-learning facilities.The Network will provide a platform for some really useful and interesting work that addresses critical issues of sustainable mineral-based development in Africa. It is worth remembering that mining accounts for more than 50% of export revenues in 19 countries.Navigation within these documents is done by using PDF links and the standard set of Acrobat Reader buttons displayed with all PDF documents. Because the documents are extensive, we have not fully developed all the links possible and have not labelled them.We are a gathering of resource managers, scientists, civil servants, and industry leaders. We include leaders of non-governmental organizations-both large and small, of international bodies and grassroots groups.We celebrate one of the greatest collective land use commitments in the history of humankind-a worldwide system of some 100,000 protected areas and a tripling of the world's protected areas over the last twenty years.We voice concern that while 12% of the world's land area now enjoys protection, less than 1% of the world's oceans, seas and coasts have protected status, exposing fisheries and rich storehouses of biodiversity to overexploitation.We voice concern that human-induced climate change threatens to reverse our past achievements and jeopardize future efforts and that the world has not started substantial reduction in greenhouse gas emissions.We urge commitment to the irreplaceable role of protected areas in the implementation of the Millennium Development Declaration, the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation, the Convention on Biological Diversity, the Convention to Combat Desertification, the Ramsar Convention, the World Heritage Convention and other global agreements.We urge commitment to ensuring that people who benefit from or are impacted by protected areas have the opportunity to participate in relevant decision-making on a fair and equitable basis in full respect of their human and social rights.Key Target 10: Participatory mechanisms for the restitution of indigenous peoples' traditional lands and territories that were incorporated in protected areas without their free and informed consent established and implemented by 2010.Target 11: Ensure the greater participation of younger generations in the governance and management of protected areas and take action to strengthen their capacity to contribute to and expand the conservation community as a whole.This process included provision for a fully equipped meeting room(s) for contact group(s) on the Durban Accord and Action Plan Report back to the final plenary on the morning session of September 17. Report on the Durban Accord and Action Plan made by Estherine Lisinge.To guide the Secretariat and participants through the recommendations process, a Congress Recommendations Committee was formed at the beginning of the Congress. This Committee was tasked with making decisions on points of procedure relating to the recommendations process, in close consultation with the Secretariat and Workshop Streams, Cross-Cutting Themes and Motion leads.List of approved recomendations All 32 motions were discussed in the relevant discussion groups, then reviewed and approved in Workshop Stream/Themes plenary sessions. The recommendations will be published in the Congress proceedings, and noted and acknowledged in the plenary where Congress outputs are reported.Outputs on the Convention on Biological Diversity Documents One of the main outputs of the Congress was its Message to the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD), the only convention that addresses protected areas in a comprehensive manner. The contribution of the WPC to the 7th Conference of the Parties (COP7) to the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) is of paramount importance since it is the first time, after the Convention came into force, 10 years ago, that protected areas is subject to an in depth consideration by Parties. The COP meeting provides an important opportunity for this Congress, given that the decisions of the CBD Parties next February will guide national action of the 180 parties to the CBD, and the development of international enabling provisions.Turmi, Ethiopia in East Africa. About 120 people attended, the majority of whom were pastoralists who wished to meet other pastoralists, and who are interested to find and exchange new ways of negotiating an improved deal for pastoralists.Meanwhile, the Maa Civil Society Forum is in the process of devising a long term strategy to facilitate the whole process of the struggle. As we indicated in our previous communication, this shall require a lot of resource mobilisation, advice from both the historical and legal angles and of course moral support. It is our hope that the Maasai community can count on you and your network for any of this kind of support.Unfortunately the rise of tourism has resulted in the unplanned development of the area, creating pressures on the ecosystems and causing environmental problems such as over-fishing of the lagoon and coral reef destruction. Local communities have lived here for many years and realise that their heritage is threatened by unregulated practices. That's why indigenous fishermen have put forward suggestions to the government to regulate the access to fishing grounds and to set certain areas aside for conservation. IUCN's Commission on Ecosystem Management in partnership with PROARCA (project operating in Meso America funded by a/o USAID and The Nature Conservancy) support this with the implementation of sustainable community management plans, based on the Ecosystem Approach.The Ecosystem Approach, consisting of 12 Principles and 5 points of Operational Guidance is a strategy for the integrated management of land, water and living resources that promotes conservation and sustainable use in an equitable way. It looks beyond the boundaries of Protected Areas and promotes inter-sectoral cooperation, placing humans at the centre of conservation efforts. The Netherlands have long recognised the importance of an integrated approach to nature conservation and are financing the IUCN project "Promoting application of the Ecosystem Approach through IUCN's Commission on Ecosystem Management". Bocas del Toro will be the first case study analysis in which the principles are applied and tested. CEM's regional vice chair for meso-America, Nestor Windevoxhel, will be coordinating this project.Located in the north-western corner of Panama, the marine archipelago of Bocas del Toro includes numerous remote islands with their unique flora and fauna, coral reefs and mangrove keys. Local communities have always lived from the goods and services that the variety of ecosystems delivered without degrading the system. In 1988 the government established the 'Bastimentos Island National Marine Park' in the archipelago based on recommendations from a scientific study. The park covers 32,700 acres of which 28,600 are marine. The establishment of the park was done without consulting the local communities and as a consequence they were not very supportive of it.Three years ago PROARCA started a participatory process to develop an integrated management plan for the National Park involving all the stakeholders. The plan was submitted to the government, but until today no follow-up has been made. As a result of this process the local fishermen realised that they needed to organise themselves to counterbalance the unsustainable developments in the region. ADEPESCO, a 'coalition for conservation' was formed, organising 12 communities of Bocas del Toro.One year ago, ADEPESCO developed, together with the local authorities and NGOs a management plan for the whole archipelago that takes up the National Park, seven community areas with areas for conservation and for sustainable use, and a bufferzone with regulated access and use, controlled by the authorities. The communities have not received a response from the authorities. Without legal confirmation of their plans, they are not sure how to proceed. They have the competence required to implement the Ecosystem Approach on their own, but welcome the support and guidance of international organisations such as PROARCA and IUCN.In a workshop in Bocas del Toro on July 8, 2003, all stakeholders of the archipelago discussed the proposal to start a project that would test if community based management following the Ecosystem Approach is feasible and sustainable. "We are tired of always talking about how we should conserve and sustainably use our resources. We are very capable of managing our environment according to the Ecosystem Approach, but we are waiting for follow-up from the authorities for implementation. We welcome this project of IUCN/CEM and PROARCA in s