5722018101	Every person has the capability to change unhealthy lifestyle patterns, and to develop courage to follow through with new choices.We are a private group practice of internationally recognized mental health professionals who specialize in Cognitive Behavior Therapy and Dialectical Behavior Therapy, and provide clinical, consultation, and coaching services for children, adolescents and adults. As a group of dedicated clinicians and researchers, we are committed to helping clients identify goals, overcome obstacles, and resolve problems that may be impeding their lives. Through the use of evidence-based approaches, we provide the necessary structure and tools to assist individuals with issues ranging from life stresses and problems to the full range of mild to severe psychological disorders including eating disorders, depression, anxiety, self-injurious behaviors, mood regulation difficulties, insomnia and habit disorders.I work individually and in groups with women who struggle with issues around eating and body image. Obsession with body image, over exercising, anorexia, bulimia, compulsive overeating, etc... Feelings of shame and embarrassment are often associated with eating disorders. I offer a safe and confidential environment where you can explore, learn tools, and discuss issues related to your eating disorder.Allow yourself to "BE". This is what I help my clients do. I am a Licensed Professional Counselor in Colorado as well as a National Certified Counselor. I have a realistic, humanistic counseling philosophy, with a desire to help my clients explore and begin to love the person they truly are. I start with an assessment of the individual, family or couple, then formulate a plan for treatment that is unique to each client. I have been in the counseling field since 1990 and have been exposed to a wide variety of treatment settings and clients. However, I believe my calling is to dedicate my life's work to the treatment of eating disorders.Providing psychotherapy to adults and adolescents with food and body image issues: food restriction, binging, purging, emotional eating, chronic dieting and body dissatisfaction. I offer an eclectic approach in a warm and supportive setting, specializing in working to meet the individual needs of each person. Referrals to and collaborations with nutritionists, psychiatrists and medical doctors as needed. Insurance reimbursable.Anne Chester, LCSW is an experienced counselor specializing in child and adolescent population. She has worked with at risk children for over 15 years and has been a professional counselor for the last 7 years. Practice specialties include eating disorder, trauma, depression, anxiety disorders, bipolar disorder, divorce reaction, self harm behaviors, communication skills, self esteem issues, parent child discord, anger managment, and oppositional defiant disorder. Anne Chester, LCSW works with many local psychiatrists and dietitians.Dr. Carr treats teenagers and adults struggling with eating disorders and body image disturbance using an integrative, client-centered and collaborative approach, employing empirically-based interventions that address clients' difficulties while building on their strengths and empowering them to create positive change. Dr. Carr accepts Blue Cross / Blue Shield PPO health insurance and offers a sliding scale to clients with financial need.I am a licensed, clinical psychologist who treats individuals with anorexia, bulimia, binge eating, and obesity. I provide bariatric assessments and some psychological testing. I enjoy working with women and teenage girls. My treatment is tailored to individuals' needs. I will bill most insurance plans.I offer individual and group counseling for individuals suffering from all types of eating disorders. Family therapy is also available. I am able to combine my education and experience in counseling psychology and health and fitness to provide multi-disciplinary counseling.Dr. Smith is a licensed psychologist with a practice in Santa Barbara, CA. She has specialized in treating people with Eating Disorders since 1998. Her approach is grounded in her respect for and support of the patient. She works collaboratively to help the patient understand what purpose the Eating Disorder is serving in his/her life, and then helps the patient to decrease unhealthy behaviors and increase healthy behaviors and self acceptance.I utilize a behavioral approach to address the eating disorder behavior which allows for the underlying emotional issues to surface. I have worked on my own eating disorder recovery and am honored to support others with their recovery.Jennifer has extensive experience working with Eating Disorders and has treated clients on inpatient, partial hospital and intensive outpatient levels. Having recovered from Anorexia for over 16 years, Jennifer has a special empathy for those suffering from the devastating effects of an Eating Disorder. Her approach is one of compassion and understanding, and at the same time, directive and goal-oriented. Jennifer believes that recovery is possible for every person and she works to collaborate with clients in finding their own paths towards health and wholeness.I am a clinical psychologist with experience treating eating and body image disorders. I completed training at university counseling centers, providing group, family, couple's and individual counseling. I have been in a private practice setting for 5 years. In treating eating disorders, I think it is important to look at the role food is playing in your life. Often, people are using food to cope with and/or not feel painful emotions and, sometimes, to punish themselves. Treatment is focused on finding other ways to cope with painful emotions and to get your needs met. We will also look at how societal and family factors have influenced the problem. It is common for other issues to arise, like depression, anxiety, past trauma, and self-esteem. I believe treatment works best when it involves a team of people, and we would decide together what is needed (nutritional counseling, medication, group theray, etc). Looking for help is a huge step on the road to recovery for eating and body image issues. You are on your way by looking at this website. Please feel free to contact me if you have further questions. Phone contact is the best way to reach me or get a message to me.I am an experienced psychotherapist who has worked extensively treating anorexia, bulimia, compulsive overeating/ binge-eating disorder, and other troubles with body image, food and weight. I view therapy as a collaborative process in which we we work on understanding what causes the eating disorder and make concerns about food and weight less powerful so that satisfaction can be found in life and relationships.In addition to treating eating disorders, I am well-versed in addressing anxiety, depression, and trauma, as well as drug and alcohol addiction. I work both men and women, as well as with many young adults trying to find satisfying relationships and career paths. Many of my clients are artists, actors, and dancers, and I understand the joys and pitfalls of realizing a career in the arts. I can offer short- and long-term treatment. When there are limited finances, I can offer a reduced rate.I am a therapist who has specialized in treating children and young adults with eating disorders for the last three (plus) years. At The Center for Counseling and Psychotherapy, I hope to continue to work with individuals who struggle with disordered eating in individual, family or couple's therapy.Dana Shafir is a Licensed Professional Counselor who works with adolescents, adults, and families. Her person-centered approach cultivates an empowering and egalitarian environment that encourages clients to explore and discover their inner strengths and competencies. Solution-focused and cognitive behavioral techniques are often utilized to help clients make goal-oriented steps toward positive, realistic, and lasting changes. Dana's clinical interests include issues surrounding body image and eating disorders, as well as matters related to the mental health of adolescents and women.I am 47 years old and have been working on myself for over half of my life. My passion is helping individuals with eating disorders because I personally recovered from an eating disorder about 15 years ago. I love watching people grow and being part of the process.Sessions are geared toward the personal needs of each client. I view the individual as coping with life in the best way he or she knows how, and view the individual's difficulties as understandable responses to life situations. Together, we begin to understand the difficulties, where they come from, and them move through them to a happier, healthier place.I provide group and individual treatment based on Dialectical Behavior Therapy (DBT) with a focus on eating disorders. DBT provides an opportunity to gain the skills necessary for identifying, experiencing and regulating emotions, in order to interact more effectively with ourselves and others. There are two components to DBT: skills training group and individual therapy. In skills training group, lectures and discussions focus on managing emotions, learning to be more effective in relationships, and learning techniques for tolerating distress. Individual therapy focuses on staying motivated, understanding how and why problem behaviors occur and identifying alternative, more skillful ways of coping. The overall approach to therapy is called "dialectical" because it seeks balance between opposites -- such as acceptance and change, validation and challenge, rigidity and flexibility. Underlying DBT is the practice of "mindfulness." Drawn from the Zen tradition of meditation, mindfulness is about attending to the moment, without judgment or impulsivity.Dr. Tanowitz integrates a variety of therapeutic approaches and emphasizes the mind-body relationship. She assists clients in developing new coping skills and making lifestyle changes to improve overall well-being. Dr. Tanowitz works with adolescents and adults with eating disorders, anxiety, and depression. She aims to optimize the psychological and physical health of her clients.Individual therapy and a cognitive behavioral group are offered at her practice in Sleepy Hollow, N.Y.Cognitive-Behavior Therapy (CBT) is an extensively researched treatment of choice for Bulimia Nervosa and Binge Eating Disorder. I am a Certified Cognitive Therapist with expertise in Dialectical Behavior Therapy (DBT) for the treatment of emotion dysregulation and trauma. Treatment for your eating disorder will follow the researched, 4-Stage CBT enhanced protocol. I draw from acceptance, strength-based, and positive psychological principles to balance the change process. Please go to my website and/or call/e-mail me for more information or a free consultation.Nina Savelle-Rocklin, M.A., MFT has extensive experience treating eating disorders in children, adolescents and adults. In addition to her private practice located in Sherman Oaks, she holds a position as staff therapist at The Manick Program, an intensive outpatient program for eating disorders. She recently completed a three-year internship in the psychoanalytic treatment of eating disorders under the tutelage of Susan Cofsky, Psy.D. Previously, Nina was affiliated with the Center for Individual & Family Therapy where she created and facilitated an eating disorder group for bulimic women. She is a member of LATFED (Los Angeles Task Force on Eating Disorders) and ANAD (National Association of Anorexia Nervosa and Associated Disorders). Nina strives to provide compassion and support in a safe environment as she works with clients toward recovery.In this private practice setting, a treatment team approach is supported in the recovery process. Referrals can be made for a medication evaluation, a nutrition consult with a registered and licensed dietician, and a support group is available. The focus of this therapist is on individual counseling on an outpatient basis with family counseling when needed and/or recommended.It has been one of my primary interests to work with women with eating disorder and body image concerns. When I held a staff psychologist position at a state University for 12 years, i was the appointed person for treatment, consultation training, and outreach work. I also served as the co-coordinator to a university-wide Eating Disorders and Body Image Concerns Task Force for about 7 years at this University. My approaches were eclectic, primarily cognitive-behavioral but often with creative and multi-cultural perspectives given my own ethnically Chinese background. I work collaboratively with other mental/health providers for comprehesive care of the clients. I have been licensed as a psychologist since 1994 in Virginia and have worked with a very diverse clientele. I am also a registrant with the National Register in Psychology. I participate in several managed care panels, such as Medicare, Kaiser Permanente, BCBS PPO , Tricare, PHCS and NCPPO.I have worked for many years with individuals and families encompassing a vast variety of cultural and social issues. Also I have had experience with addiction and substance use. As well as currently specializing in Eating Disorder Treatment. I currently co-facilitate a free support group that meets twice a month that focuses on Eating Disoders. I use a combination of therapy approaches when needed. They include cognitive-behavioral techniques, psychodnamic therapy, relational approaches, psychoeducational methods. I speak Spanish and offer therapy in Spanish as well. The initial screening session is free. I also offer a sliding scale. Please call me at the number listed.Cognitive-behavioral therapy for adolescents & adults in Dallas, TX. A rational approach to understanding the basis for your thoughts & actions, providing a way to re-pattern your thinking in order to improve behaviors.Wednesday evening ongoing psychotherapy group for women struggling with anorexia, bulimia and binge eating. The purpose of the group is to provide mutual support, to reduce symptoms and to better understand the underlying issues/origins of the eating disorder. We will also look at how the eating disorder impacts body image, relationships and self-esteem. The group meets Wednesday evenings at 6:45pm. Office is located at 26th and Broadway and is accessible via the 1, F, N/R, and 6 trains.Group is run by Jennifer Silacci, LMSW. Completed post-graduate psychoanalytic training in eating disorders and body image issues at The Women's Therapy Centre Institute and currently run eating disorder groups for New York University. In addition, I am the Clinical Advisor to the FREED Foundation.Carmen Scroggin provides individual, couples, and family therapy for adolescents and adults. Her office is located in North Dallas at Inwood and Northwest Highway. Carmen accepts most insurance plans. Her warm, individualzed approach helps each person feel comfortable as they work to make positive changes in thinking, emotions, and behaviors.I start with the premise that Eating Disorders are meaningful and can be understood. I believe that more important than body and food, is hunger, and that the person with an eating disorder is in an all out war with their hunger. In my work I try to help folks get in touch with the more meaningful hungers they are craving, and help them seeks means of satisfying those larger hungers.My clients describe me as warm, compassionate and funny, but also as direct, challenging, and focused; seeking out the hard and stuck places in their approach to living and loving. To quote a movie, The Summer Place, "Life is too hard without being miserable on top of it". I don't try to convince my clients that life is easy or carefree, but I do believe lots of happiness and contentment can be found when we face and come to terms with our truths.When leaving counseling, folks usually feel better. Not necessarily so with therapy. The work can be hard. It doesn't always feel good right away. What I promise clients is that I will take good care of them while they do the hard work of looking at themselves and their lives.While Eating Disorders are my specialty of 14 years, I believe therapy deals most with the issues we all share in common, like figuring out how to love and be loved, how to see ourselves and others with compassion, and how to take control of the crafting of our lives. For more information about my views on Eating Disorders, please visit my website listed below.Psychotherapy for individuals couples and groups. Specializing in the treatment of eating disorders, body image distortion and weight issues. Evaluations and follow up psychotherapy for weight loss surgury patients. Personal coaching for health and wellness. Offices in Long Island and NYC.I treat men, women and adolescents with anorexic, bulimic, compulsive overeating and ruminating symptoms. I have experience working with clients struggling with eating disorders in in-patient, day treatment and outpatient settings and like to work as a team where appropriate with nutritionists, physicians and psychiatrists.I also work with depression, anxiety, and trauma and abuse, and am trained in EMDR, somatic experiencing and DBT skills building. I am ecclectic in my approach, drawing my understanding from the psychodynamic orientation, but believing that as an exclusive technique it is often ineffective because it ignores the body and the non-thinking parts of the brain. I take into account people's presenting issues, what has and has not worked for them in the past and their learning styles in deciding what combination of insight, cognitive behavioral or body-based work to incorporate. Currently I am co-leading a group for women sexually abused as children and will co-lead another group in the fall for adolescents with eating disorders.The treatment of eating disorders is not just about food - whether it's eating it, not eating it, keeping it down or exercising it off.Treatment must address the underlying issues that began and maintain the eating disorder so that one may experience true freedom. My experience includes being the Student Director of the Weight Control Clinic at SDSU in the 1970's as well having developed and co-owned Summit Eating Disorders Program here in Sacramento. I am now in private practice and do individual, couples and family therapy and often offer groups geared toward individuals grappling with eating disorders.David Parker Psy.D. and Janet Kelly, LMSW, Eating Disorder Specialists, welcome you or someone you know to a treatment aimed at reducing eating disorder symptoms. A unique opportunity awaits. The program will start with an initial intake assessment to help determine your goals and objectives. We will also evaluate your current level of symptom use and help you develop a meal plan to guide you through our 15-week program. The program will include a weekly dinner followed by a therapeutically informed discussion of the meal. We will explore your feelings, physical sensations and body image following the completion of the meal. In addition to the meal and subsequent reflection, we will have a group therapy session discussing the underlying emotional issues driving your eating smptoms in an atmosphere of mutual support and understanding. Each session is then concluded with members setting realistic goals to reach towards in the following week. Our program is an accompaniment to your weekly therapy; it is aimed towards the cessation of food symptoms such as restriction, binge eating, purging and obsessive thoughts around food and body. Through our therapeutic evening you will learn to identify, acknowledge and shift your relationship with your eating disorder. We look forward to working with you.Next session begins Tuesday, September 12th, 5:30pm-8:30pm.Call now to reserve your spot.There is an 8 person maximum for this group.I believe in each individual's ability to work through issues with food and body image, and eventually achieve a life free from the distress, pain, and shame caused by these issues. I provide individual psychotherapy for people who want to recover from disordered eating. I will work with couples and families as needed. I often utilize a team approach and collaborate with other professionals such as physicians, nutritionists, and psychiatrists in order to more fully help the recovering individual.I have extensive experience working with frequently co-existing conditions such as depression, anxiety, and substance abuse. I provide culturally sensitive therapy to both women and men.I am a clinical psychologist with many years of experience working with people who suffer from bulimia, anorexia, and compulsive overeating. I provide individual, group, and family/couples therapy. In addition, starting this September I will be providing a 3-hour weekly program that will offer a meal, a discussion of your experience of the meal, and a group therapy session. I practice insight oriented / self-acceptance based therapy. I work with both men and women; adolecents and adults. In addition to eating disorders, I specialize in the treatment of depression, anxiety, and obsessive compulsive disorder. I also have experience working with male family members of patients with eating disorders, helping them understand the disorder and learn to better communicate with their loved one.I provide therapeutic services to both individuals and families. I specialize in working with individuals with eating disorders and also assist my clients in overcoming anxiety, depression, relationship difficulties, and familial issues. I tailor each individual treatment plan according to my client's needs with a strong emphasis on cognitive behavioral techniques in order to assist my client to regain her inner strength, and her self-esteem.I hold a process group for women in recovery from an eating disorder every Monday night from 6:30 pm to 8 pm. In contact with others who share their feeligns and struggles, individuals can learn to gain insight into their issues and become more true to themselves.Free, ongoing ANAD support group meets the 2nd and 4th Saturdays of the month from 10:00-11:30AM. Open to all ages, race, gender, sexual orientation. We provide a warm, supportive and understanding environment to those suffering from eating disorders, body image disturbance, and disordered eating. We also provide a phone contact list for extra support in between meetings, information, materials, a lending library and referrals for therapy. Eating disorders can compromise your ability to function in many areas of your life. Secrecy and shame make it difficult to overcome an eating disorder. A support group helps provide relief from this sense of isolation by providing optimism, support, hope, and a sense of community through the sharing of life experiences with other people like yourself.This weekly group is a forum for all women who are in the recovery process from an eating disorder. Members support one another and share their triumphs and the challenges they face as they seek to empower themselves and each other. The group recognizes that eating behaviors are a symptom, a mechanism used to cope with situations or emotions that have felt unbearable. This group is a safe place to discuss issues surrounding the recovery process, a space for self-expression, and a network of creative, talented, and beautiful women.A Safe Place to Heal is pleased to offer therapy in a safe, confidential environment for people who are challenged by their eating patterns as well as with their personal relationships. By attending counseling sessions, you will be able to not only have a safe place to discuss your struggles, process your feelings, and receive support, but you will also be exposed to psycho-educational learning helping you to:Define and understand the nature of your eating disorder (Anorexia/Bulimia/Overeating)Identify underlying feelings/thoughts about your self esteem & body imageIdentify dysfunctional family patterns and faulty cognitive beliefs about food in your family of originLearn to overcome these cognitive beliefs that have kept you stuck in old, negative thinking patternsLearn specific skills (incorporating emotional, psychological, physical and spiritual ways) to heal yourself as well as your personal relationshipsFind a healthy environment in which you can become a more powerful, more balanced, more integrated YOU!The key to a satisfying therapy experience is the relationship between clinician and client, the right fit. It is my aim to create a comfortable, safe and accepting atmosphere to facilitate your healing process. Rather than a silent onlooker in the room, I am vocal and engaged, utilizing your personal history and in-the-room observations to heighten your understanding of circumstances and guide you towards positive change.My work involves the development of an overall helping relationship with people like you. The purpose of the counseling process is to work together to help you with the concerns that bring you into the counseling relationship. Identifying concerns and developing plans to address them often involves the process of personal change. This process can produce dramatic results, though often the process takes time and recurrent effort. Having the appropriate tools and resources can facilitate the accomplishment of goals and many times the results of counseling include the efforts you exert outside the counseling setting. Counseling requires active participation from you and me. We must work together toward your goals. This work can include the use of several different techniques and approaches.If something is troubling you, call for a complimentary phone consultation today, to see how A Safe Place to Heal can help.We are offering support groups for individuals suffering from an eating disorder and their family members. The groups will provide psychoeducation, processing of feelings, coping tools and the support you need. The first group will be held on Saturday mornings at 10:00am for individuals with an eating disorder or preoccupation with body image. The second group will be held at 12:00pm on Saturday afternoon and is open to family members and friends of someone suffering from these difficulties. Please call us for further details.Co-founder of The Eating Disorders Collaborative in San Francisco and San Rafael as well as Director for 17 years of Ohlhoff Outpatient Eating Disorders Treatment Facility. Now in Private Practice treating all eating disorders to all people. Individual, Couples, Family, Groups, Nutrition, Anxiety Reduction. We treat the whole individual, physically, mentally and emotionally and have a separate component for Women of Size. We collaborate with physicians, nutritionists and alternative treatment personnel. We value each client individually and help the client know themselves and their hunger. We believe that behind every compulsive bite or act of restriction with food is a body-anxiety that seems too unbearable. We work with ways to "bear the unbearable, "allowing strength emerge. Our group size has a maximum of 6, allowing enough time for each person. Clients will learn how to thrive, not merely survive.Licensed Clinical Psychologist providing individual, group, family, and couples psychotherapy for the prevention and treatment of eating disorders. Support groups for individuals suffering from an eating disorder and for family members. Multi-disciplinary team approach by coordinating treatment with other health care providers. Other specialty areas include depression, anxiety/stress management, self-esteem/identity issues and trauma. Completed residency at renowned eating disorder facility.Community Counseling is a unique outpatient eating disorder program. The outpatient eating disorder specialists, many of whom have recovered from eating disorders themselves, offer both individual, family, and group therapy. You will take an active role in your own treatment plan and will not simply be prescribed a standard treatment formula to follow. With your help, Community Counseling will evaluate your needs and implement an individual program for you which consists of therapy, nutrition, exercise, and behavior modification. You will learn how to restore your metabolism and how to control your weight in a healthy way, which Community Counseling knows is important to you. Additionally, you will learn about the underlying stresses and problems of life that have helped cause or contribute to your turning to starving, binging, or purging as a means to cope. The staff works with you as part of the treatment team. Community Counseling recognizes you have a unique situation and needs. They can help set you up with a dietician, doctor and/or a psychiatrist.Is Community Counseling Right For You? The first step is the hardest to take. Community Counseling asks you simply to take the time to call and find out more about their services. They can answer any of your questions, evaluate your needs, help you with financial arrangements including checking your insurance coverage and most importantly, you will get a feel for our philosophy and our staff. Community Counseling has offices in Agoura Hills, Malibu, West Los Angeles, Brentwood, Pacific Palisades, Beverly Hills and Santa Barbara.The DC ANAD Support Group has established itself with the intention to provide cost-free support to anyone whose life has been impacted by an eating disorder. DC ANAD is a valuable and easily accessible local resource in the fight against eating disorders through its free, weekly support group meetings.Beyond Hunger is a non-profit organization that has been providing workshops, support groups and prevention programs for adults and teens struggling with eating disorders and body hatred since 1988. Beyond Hunger's programs combine body acceptance, intuitive eating and emotional coping in a psycho-educational support group format with licensed therapists. Beyond Hunger was founded by Carol Normandi, MFT and Laurelee Roark, CCHT co-authors of "It's Not About Food" and "Over It." Beyond Hunger trains high school peer educators to provide prevention and education in Marin's middle and high schools. Beyond Hunger also offers resources and referrals for eating disorder treatment professionals.The Mandel Center of Arizona provides supportive psychotherapeutic services to people in need. We strive to make therapy as positive and helpful an experience as possible by "being where the patient is". This means that all of the patient's life experiences are taken into account including their past, present and hopes for the future.  The Mandel Center of Arizona is headed by Alyssa Mandel, LCSW. Ms. Mandel earned her Masters Degree at Columbia University in New York City and has been a licensed psychotherapist for more than 10 years. Her supportive philosophy is based on years of experience working with people from many different backgrounds and with numerous presenting problems. Ms. Mandel believes that working with patients from a non-judgmental perspective empowers the patient and the therapeutic relationship, making it more productive and comfortable for all involved.  In addition, Ms. Mandel believes in the importance of an inter-disciplinary team approach to therapy that enlists the expertise of other behavioral health professionals, such as social workers, psychiatrists and psychologists, together with physicians and nutritionists, where deemed appropriate. Such an approach can help to ensure that relevant aspects of the client's health are addressed appropriately and in a coordinated fashion.  The Mandel Center of Arizona has experience in the following areas: Eating Disorders: -Anorexia Nervosa -Bulimia -Binge Eating Disorder -Compulsive Eating Disorder -ObesityPanic and Anxiety DisordersDepressionSubstance AbuseAdolescent IssuesCouples CounselingFamily Therapy Workplace CounselingConsulting Services:The Mandel Center of Arizona is prepared to provide consulting services, including group seminars, workshops, workplace assessments and problem resolution consulting, to business and professional organizations of all types and sizes.Consulting services are customized to the specific needs of your organization. Please contact us for more details.Jennifer completed her graduate studies in Clinical Social Work at New York University and post-graduate work in Rational Emotive Behavior Therapy at the Albert Ellis Institute in Manhattan. She has prior experience as a therapist in both inpatient and outpatient settings. Sessions are available by appointment to address a wide variety of issues including eating disorders/disordered eating, depression, anxiety, body image, self-esteem, substance abuse, trauma, relationships, family, career and life changes. Traditional talk therapies reflecting cognitive behavioral, family systems, psychodynamic and solution focused perspectives are employed. The process of treatment is interactive, personal and collaborative. Oftentimes additional outside treatment providers are called upon to address coexisting medical, nutritional and psychiatric concerns.The Circle of Friends free support group is available to males and females seeking a supportive group environment for eating disorder recovery. This group meets one evening per week. Please contact Nancy Albus for further information on meeting times and location.As a licensed marriage and family therapist, I offer a safe place to explore the many issues of an eating disorder. I provide gentle, yet directive support for the journey to recovery. I Please feel free to call for additional information. I also work with birthmothers and adult adoptees in relation to eating disorders. Support groups, family and couples therapy are also available.Attendees will hear from members of OA who have experienced recovery from food obsession, obesity, anorexia, bulimia, body image issues and obsession with dieting. Everyone is invited to learn more about the OA 12-step program of recovery, ask questions, find understanding, support and help. For more information, see our website at www.oahouston.org or call 713-973-6633.An outpatient therapeutic approach combining cognitive and behavioral strategies with meal and group support. It includes group therapies focused on symptom resolution, emotion management, and relationship skills, as well as nutrition education groups and meal outings with the goal of nomalizing eating and weight. An advanced recovery group is offered for those who have already received significant treatment and want continued support in ongoing recovery efforts.The Manhattan West Division of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services, Inc. offers a weekly group for women ages 20 and up struggling with eating and body image issues. The group meets on Thursdays from 7:00 pm-8:15 pm. Some topics include self-esteem, body distortions, isolation, interpersonal relationships, perfectionism, feeling out of control, difficulty nurturing oneself and asking for one's needs, childhood trauma and abuse, depression, anxiety, and anger. It also discusses healthy eating habits to improve one's relationship with food. This will particularly involve an anti-diet approach where women will learn to recognize physiological hunger, so they can know when to feed themselves and when they are satiated. Overall, this group will provide women with the strategies they need to change the negative thoughts and feelings they have about their bodies and themselves. Most insurances are accepted and a sliding scale is available upon request.Provides individual, family and group psychotherapy for all eating disorders, adult and adolescents. Certified group therapist offers groups in Oakland and Walnut Creek, Ca. Two new groups starting in May and June 2005.The name Understanding Nutrition says it all. Our philosophy is that a healthy relationship with food and eating is key piece of a happy and healthy life. We understand eating disorders and related issues - that's all that we do. Our goal is to help you understand your food and eating habits in order to make the changes you know you need, while understanding that making changes is difficult. We can help you with therapist and physician referrals as needed, and we work with anyone who wants recovery, regardless of ability to pay. If you're ready to reach out, we're ready to help.Formerly of the Renfrew Center Florida, I have extensive experience with Eating Disorders and Disordered Eating. Bringing the experience from this leading treatment facility to the heart of Texas, I am able to provide clients with an empathetic approach to the process of normalizing the relationship to food. I have additional experience with gastric bypass patients and can provide effective treatment for those with compulsive overeating or binge eating disorder.Even if unsure about technically having an 'eating disorder', we can explore and identify any difficulties with food.Cynthia A. Ray, is a registered dietitian and a recovered professional specializing in the treatment of eating disorders.Cynthia provides treamtnet for both male and female children, adolescents, and adults in a one-on-one private and confidential environemnt.Nutrition therapist with over ten years of experience specializing in the treatment of anorexia, bulimia, compulsive eating disorder and weight management. I am available to provide in home nutrition therapy for adolescents and adults in the south jersey area. My services include individual sessions, family support and referrals to other eating disorder professionals.We work with adults and teenagers dealing with EDs including anorexia, bulemia and compulsive over-eating from a holistic perspective paying attention to nutrition, lifestyle and relationship with the body. The director, Jena la Flamme is fully recovered from years suffering from an ED and is dedicated to supporting others to fully recover aswell. Her approach is based on a depp respect for the innate intelligence of the body and the knowledge that with nurturanc and attention balance with food can be rediscovered.Jena la Flamme is available for seminars on a pro-bono basis and for introductory individual consultations for $25 either by phone or in person in New York City.Kate Evett is a registered dietitian and nutrition therapist specializing in the treatment of eating disorders and weight management. She earned her Bachelors of Science in Food Science and Human Nutrition from the University of Missouri-Columbia. In addition to her private practice, Kate is a nutrition therapist at Castlewood Treatment Center for Eating Disorders. She assists her clients in developing a healthy relationship with food through a non-diet approach. Meal support, grocery shopping assistance, and online/telephone therapy available.Nutrition therapist specializing in Eating Disorders and weight issues,using CBT exercises.Non diet approach, addressing thought pattern and behaviour with food.My work is very individualised and depends on each individual's situation.In addition to my work in private practice I am on staff at an Earing Disorder treatment Center.Registered Dietitian and Nutritionist specializing in all eating disorders including, anorexia, buminia, binge eating disorder and overeating. Non-judgemental and comfortable atmosphere. Flexible and warm counseling environement.Provides in home visit nutrition counseling to residents of the Greater Cincinnati and Northern Kentucky areas. Education and counseling is provided by Registered Dietitians and Certified Diabetes Educators on a variety of nutrition related topics including disordered eating, weight management, diabetes, meal planning, and more. Contact us to sign up for our free newsletter.Deborah Kauffmann, RD, LDN has been been providing nutrition counseling to adolescents and adults with eating disorders for the past sixteen years. Currently in private practice, she is the former Director of Nutrition Services at the Center for Eating Disorders at St. Joseph Medical Center in Towson, Maryland. She is also one of the pioneers of the nondiet approach to weight management in the Baltimore area. Since 1993 Deborah has lectured on the nutritional treatment of eating disorders, overcoming overeating, and the Health at Every Size paradigm at health care organizations throughout Maryland. Deborah has also appeared on Maryland Public Television to promote size acceptance.Professional affiliations include the American Dietetic Association, the Maryland Dietetic Association and the Association for Size Diversity and Health.Deborah will be offering individual and group nutrition counseling to adolescents and adults for:- Anorexia Nervosa- Bulimia Nervosa- Compulsive eating- Weight management (nondiet approach)- WellnessDeborah also offers Largely Positive, a support group for people of size. The mission of Largely Positive is to promote health and self-esteem among larger people.As a registered dietitian, with a unique background of a Masters degree in Educational Counseling, I dedicate my practice primarily to treating individuals suffering from eating disorders. I strongly believe that full recovery is attainable, when the individual is genuinely ready to work along with their treatment team to make permanent behavior changes. In addition to private practice, I am currently on staff at an eating disorder treatment center. In order for full recovery to occur, I believe in working with a team of professionals including a registered dietitian, a therapist, and a psychiatrist.I provide nutritional therapy to clients suffering from all varieties of eating disorders. I offer nutrition education to individuals, couples, parents and groups using a supportive and direct, yet empathic approach. I utilize an integrative team approach, establishing a strong network with your personal physician, psychiatrist and therapist. I don't prescribe diets or meal plans, but instead focus on specific interventions to challenge your eating disorder.I provide nutrition therapy for teens and adults with eating disorders and emotional eating difficulties. I support the non-diet approach, and have a background in nutrition as a form of natural medicine. Teen groups, individual work, and collaboration with experienced eating disorder therapists.I work with a multidiscplinary team through the Walker Wellness Clinic that is committed to physical and mental health. We believe recovery is possible and have been in practice for ten years working with those who suffer from eating disorders.I provide individualized nutrition consultation for eating disorders and disordered eating. I also teach a 6 week class series called Diet-Free Living, for those who are ready to get off the diet roller coaster and develop a more peaceful relationship with food.Individual nutiriton therapy utilizing cognitive and behavioral approaches to eating disorders as well as general health and wellness and medical nutrition therapy. I work closely with members of the treatment team to provide a coordinated approach for the client.Nutritional Consultant I help my clients build a new relationship with food. Establishing appropriate foods and supplements for that individual.I educate and empower my clients with sensitivity and experience. Recovery is a journey that is unique to each individual.A bond of trust is essential and there are no time restraints on my work.Dr. Shandor Weiss, Naturopathic Physician and Licensed Acupuncturist, specializes in diagnosing and treating difficult cases and conditions. With the use of biofeedback tests (aka electrodermal or EAV testing), Dr. Weiss can find the precise cause(s) of each patient's problems. Causes of eating disorders may be emotional, metabolic, genetic, hormonal, neurological, spiritual, environmental, or a combination of factors. For example, a patient who binges may have a self esteem issue, a blood sugar problem, and a genetic variance on starch metabolism, all together. Some cases are more esoteric, e.g., it may seem like the patient has a low self esteem problem, but really the cause is an empathic or psychic perception of a parent's suppressed disapproval. Then the patient uses purging to rid themselves of the feelings from the other person. There are many, many other possible causes of these problems, also. With a comprehensive individualized approach, and using electrodermal tests, I can always find out why a patient has the problems they have, and find ways to help. To find out more about whether I can help or not, and how I practice, please visit www.aruraclinic.com, and especially read the pages called Ways To Help, Deep Healing, Natural Mind Therapy, and Electrodermal Tests. I offer free introductory consultations, phone and email consults, Deep Healing Programs, and programs for visiting patients.I am a registered dietitian and nutrition consultant. I believe there are no good or bad foods, and that true freedom from an eating disorder is eating what you want, when you want without fear and guilt. My mission is to come along side you and walk with you to true freedom with food. I provide nutrition education, one to one nutrition counseling, and experiential therapies.Long time nutritionist, yoga instructor and coach : Nutritionist Jen Blackert practices nutrition therapy beyond the typical what to eat and what not to eat. I focus on what to do when we know what we SHOULD DO.The Anxiety & Stress Management Institute is a comprehensive facility offering specialized treatment for anxiety and stress disorders. We also have a solid team of over 30 therapists with every other kind of specialty. We believe in treating the whole person and, therefore, provide additional services such as nutritional counseling, yoga, meditation classes, massage, and biofeedback. Please see our website at www.StressMgt.net.Kristen is a licensed psychotherapist specializing in eating disorders recovery, compulsive overeating and obesity (both the physiological and psychological aspects), as well as body image issues. She is a member of several organizations in the health field including the National Eating Disorders Association and International Association of Eating Disorders Professionals. Residing in Beverly Hills, Kristen also has over 10 years experience as a nutritionist. In collaboration with world-renowned endocrinologist, Calvin Ezrin, she co-authored Your Fat Can Make You Thin (Lowell House, 2000) which is a comprehensive guide to weight loss focusing on the role of hormonal and neurotransmitter imbalances in obesity. She is also the author of The Everday Meal Planner for Type 2 Diabetes: Simple Tips for Healthy Dining at Home and On The Town (McGraw-Hill, 2002).Kristen has been a speaker at several weight loss seminars sponsored by the Diabetes Care Center of Tarzana and has been a frequent guest on KRLA's Healthy Advice with Dr. Gene Steiner. Along with Dr. Calvin Ezrin, she has also appeared on FOX Midday Sunday to discuss obesity and its treatment. Kristen also participates in educational outreach programs with adolescents on a range of topics.In a time when we are seeing obesity and eating disordered behaviors on the rise, Kristen Caron's insight into treating these serious problems is in great demand. Through nurturing care and applied expertise, it is Kristen's ongoing commitment to help people with these often misunderstood and minimized problems understand why they have struggled with obesity and/or eating disorders and to help them unlock their potential for a healthier self.Individual nutrition counseling for adolescents and adults with eating disorders or disordered eating.Provides Resting Metabolic Rate Testing using state-of-the-art equipment. This test provides an accurate assessment of an individual's calorie requirements that can be used to develop a personalized meal plan.Ani specializes in individual nutrition therapy for adolescents and adults suffering with eating disorders, disordered eating and weight management. By providing a caring and supportive environment, she helps clients achieve lifestyle goals, empowerment and well being.She provides nutrition therapy to women, men and adolescents struggling with food and body size issues. She offers nutrition education and experimental groups, meal support outings and grocery guidance in a group or individual format. She also counsels individuals struggling with PCOS, obesity or those who want to adopt a healthier lifestyle.Amy Jaffe is a nationally registered, state licensed nutrition professional. She has been practicing in the field of nutrion for over 20 years, specializing in eating disorders and weight-related issues. She has provided numerous presntations and interviews locally and nationally, on radio, tv and print media. She also teaches nutrition counseling and comunication skills classes and is the Director of the Graduate Dietetic Internship Program at Florida International University in Miami. She is co-author of the published textbook, "Nutrition Counseling and Communication Skills", used in universities to train nutrition students. "Myapproach is highly individualized, holistic and my style is to collaborate with clients rather than dictate to them using a nondiet approach and philosophy."I'm a Registered Dietitian with my training and interests relating to all aspects of weight management. I have helped thousands of people modify their behaviors in order to work towards a healthier lifestyle. My approach utilizes small behavior changes relating to proper nutrition and exercise while building a strong foundation of self-esteem, social support, self-awareness, and communication skills. I welcome you to call and interview me for a position in your health care team.If you are someone who struggles with her weight and obsessive thoughts about food, wonder how much to eat, when, what to choose, and how to nourish the body without becoming even more obsessed with food.... if you are someone who wants to end the vicious cycle of dieting, weighing yourself, having good and bad food days, of seeing your weight go up and down and up and down and up........ if you are ready to consult with a nutrition expert who will help you let go of your food worries and finally enjoy a healthy weight and less stressful relationship with food - visit Nancy Nutrition Consulting in Westwood. You have come to the right place.Let Nancy Ling, RD work with you in a comfortable, supportive environment, using targeted techniques that will help you let go of behaviors that don't serve you any longer, so you can finally live the life you want, in the body that makes you feel good.Affordable rates make getting the nutrition care you need, accessible to you.Conveniently located at 1328 Westwood Boulevard, Suite 3, Los Angeles, CA 90024.  Smoking may reduce the effectiveness of Alprazolam. The effects of Alprazolam may be prolonged when taken together with Cimetidine, oral contraceptives, Disulfiram, Fluoxetin, Isoniazid, Ketoconazole, Metoprolol, Probenecid, Propoxyphene, Propranolol, Rifampin and Valproic Acide.FDA. This does not mean that it will not work for some individuals, but research outcomes are still pending. If you think Naltrexone might help you, you should talk to your doctor about it and provide them with further information (see below).The safety of the use of Naltrexone in pregnancy has not been established, therefore Naltrexone is not recommended for use during pregnancy. It should not be taken by nursing mothers. The safe use of naltrexone in subjects younger than 18 years of age has not been established. Patients on naltrexone should carry a wallet card to alert physicians and other emergency health-care providers to instruct them on pain management.Side Effects: (most common) - loss of appetite, diarrhea, constipation, increased thirst, increased energy, feeling down, irritability, dizziness, skin rash, delayed ejaculation, decreased potency and chills. (less common) - Respiratory: nasal congestion, itching, rhinorrhea, sneezing, sore throat, excess mucus or phlegm, sinus trouble, heavy breathing, hoarseness, cough, shortness of breath, nose bleeds, phlebitis, edema, increased blood pressure, nonspecific ECG changes, palpitations, tachycardia, excessive gas, hemorrhoids, diarrhea, ulcer, painful shoulders, legs or knees, tremors, twitching, increased frequency of, or discomfort during urination, increased or decreased sexual interest, oily skin, pruritus, acne, athlete's foot, cold sore, alopecia, depression, paranoia, fatigue, restlessness, confusion, disorientation, hallucinations, nightmares, bad dreams.Drug Interaction: Patients receiving opioid analgesics. Opioid dependent patients. Patients in acute opioid withdrawal. Any individual who has failed to pass the Narcan challenge. Any individual who has a positive urine screen for opioids. Naltrexone will block the effects of narcotics including codeine in cough or pain preparations.Indications: For the acute and maintenance treatment of schizophrenia and related psychotic disorders. In controlled clinical trials, olanzapine was found to improve both positive and negative symptoms. In it's off-label use, it may be administered to patients with Anorexia to help control obsessive thinking.As with other drugs that have high alpha-1 adrenergic receptor blocking activity, olanzapine may induce orthostatic hypotension, tachycardia, dizziness, and sometimes syncope, especially at the initiation of treatment. Potential Effect on Cognitive and Motor Performance: Because olanzapine may cause somnolence, patients should be cautioned about operating hazardous machinery, including motor vehicles, until they are reasonably certain that olanzapine therapy does not affect them adversely. Seizures: Conventional neuroleptics are known to lower seizure threshold. In clinical trials, seizures have occurred in a small number of olanzapine-treated patients. Olanzapine should be used cautiously in patients who have a history of seizures or have conditions associated with seizure or have a lowered seizure threshold. Precautions should be exercised when using olanzapine in patients with pre-existing hepatic disorders, in patients who are being treated with potentially hepatotoxic drugs, or if treatment-emergent signs or symptoms of hepatic impairment appear. Uric Acid: In the premarketing clinical trial database, olanzapine was associated with mild elevations of uric acid in some patients. Weight Gain: Olanzapine was associated with weight gain during clinical trials. Patients treated at higher doses had the greatest mean weight gain. Antiemetic Effect: Consistent with its dopamine antagonist effects, olanzapine may have an antiemetic effect. Such an effect may mask signs of toxicity due to overdosage of other drugs or may mask symptoms of disease such as brain tumor or intestinal obstruction.If you are pregnant or planning to become pregnant, you and your doctor should discuss whether changes to your treatment plan are necessary. The effects of ZYPREXA have not been studied in pregnancy, so you and your doctor should consider the benefits versus the risks of staying with treatment. You should not take ZYPREXA if you are breast-feeding or planning to breast-feed a child.Drug Interaction: Given the primary CNS effects of olanzapine, caution should be used when it is taken in combination with other centrally-acting drugs and alcohol. As it exhibits in vitro dopamine antagonism, olanzapine may antagonize the effects of levodopa and dopamine agonists. Because of its potential for inducing hypotension, olanzapine may enhance the effects of certain antihypertensive agents.Agents that induce CYP1A2 such as omeprazole may increase clearance of olanzapine. Conversely, inhibitors of CYP1A2 (e.g., fluvoxamine) could potentially inhibit elimination of olanzapine. However, as olanzapine is metabolized by multiple enzyme systems, inhibition of a single enzyme may not appreciably decrease olanzapine clearance.This section is dedicated to the big questions that often come through by e-mail... "Why do people get Eating Disorders to begin with?" and "What causes someone to get an Eating Disorder?" Complex emotional issues, there are many contributing factors to why an individual may suffer with Anorexia, Bulimia or Compulsive Overeating.The first four sections we explore are ... Love, Listen, Communicate and Validate. These sections contain quotes from the sufferers as to what they feel could have prevented their own Eating Disorders.The next four are additional sections on some of the outside influences that may play a role in the development of Anorexia, Bulimia and Compulsive Overeating. These sections explore society and the media, food and eating, relationships with family, friends and other loved-ones, and the issues of physical, emotional and sexual abuse.Genetics may, for some sufferers, play a role in the onset of their Eating Disorder, but it is our belief that genetics alone are not the answer. If you'd like to read more on Genetics and Biology, click here.It is important to remember that there is not one single simple thing that causes a person to develop an Eating Disorder.  It usually lies in some combination of the social, environment, and biological attributes, and/or the family dysfunction of each individual.The one trait that is obviously apparent in all sufferers of an Eating Disorder is their low self-esteem. Often they feel as though they are not good enough, that they never do anything right, that they are scrutinized by others for their appearance, and that their lives would get better if they could just lose weight. Sufferers can feel like they do not deserve to be happy, that they do not deserve good things to happen to them, and that they don't deserve to have anything but what is felt as a miserable existence. They often feel like a burden to others, trivialize their own problems and feel as though other people deserve help more than them. Each section above, while exploring the causes of an Eating Disorder, simultaneously ventures into the depths of why each person suffers from a lack of self-esteem.It is not uncommon for Eating Disorder sufferers to be viewed by others as compassionate, warm, giving, sensitive, and intelligent people. The problem is that each person suffering can not see in themselves the beauty that others do. Their own hate from within distorts their perception of how truly wonderful they really are.For those who are suffering with or in recovery from an Eating Disorder: An interactive bulletin board where you can read letters from others who are suffering with or in recovery from an Eating Disorder. This is for those with Anorexia, Bulimia, Compulsive Overeating, Binge Eating Disorder, and ED-NOS to come and give support to each other.Post your own letter or reply to the ones that are there. You can connect with thousands of other members through the board itself, or through e-mail, ICQ, AIM, Yahoo and chat. Click here to register.For friends and family of those suffering who would like support. This is for the parents, step-parents, grandparents, sisters & brothers, aunts & uncles, cousins, spouses, lovers, friends and other loved-ones to find support and advice from each other in learning how to best support the person they care about.Download the AOL Instant Messenger -AIM- chat software and find others Eating Disorder sufferers and Family members of sufferers that are using this chat program to find support and to share recovery ideas.Real Women is a multi-sensory exploration of body image and its profound impact on women's health and well being. It is a series of 13 small bronze sculptures and poems portraying women of diverse size, shape, culture and age.Facilitating personal growth and spiritual enlightenment through interaction and discussion, we encourage new perspectives that will help you find meaning and purpose in your life. Large resource directory.Alt.Support.Eating-Disorders (ASED) is a friendly group of people who currently have, are recovering from or who have recovered from a variety of eating disorders - including anorexia, bulimia, compulsive overeatering, bulimarexia and/or any combination of these. ASED-list is a continuation of that group.Concerned Counseling provides access to counseling to individuals, couples and family members through our private chat rooms, or by email or telephone. The licensed professional counselors are available on our website from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. CST, 7 days a week or by phone 24 hours a day, to help you with your concerns or situation.The "POETRY" section of the site has now been incorporated into the bulletin board. This will allow authors to retain anonymity if they choose to, but will also allow others to contact them directly about their writings (if they choose to allow it in their member profile -- "My Stuff").If you are not already a member of our bulletin board system, you MUST register before submitting your own article or story. Please note, we do not allow registrations from a Yahoo or Hotmail account.We have chosen to now accept poetry this way to assist us with the time management required in running the entire site. It also encourages support and communication in all those who suffer with an Eating Disorder. If you do NOT wish to communicate with other members, you can still post your poetry here -- when you register just be sure to check the box that says you do not want other member to be able to e-mail you, and do not include any additional contact info (like ICQ number or AIM/Yahoo nickname).Our Mission: We are dedicated to raising awareness... emphasizing always that Eating Disorders are NOT about food and weight; They are just the symptoms of something deeper going on, inside. We are determined to remind each and every sufferer that they are not alone, and that complete recovery is possible. If you are the loved-one of someone that suffers, use this website to educate yourself. The more you know about Eating Disorders, the more you are equipped to provide the support your loved-one needs. If you have an Eating Disorder, you can find help. You can recover. And you deserve to do both.It has been over ten years since I started this site back in 1995, and nearly 8 years since we opened up the interactive community here. Tony and I are so proud of the work we have done in providing a resource to so many of you who have needed to find a good source of information and a safe place for support. Almost 8 million people have passed through this site since its inception, and we feel honored to have touched so many people in such a positive way.Over the last few years our time has become more and more limited. We have always managed running the site in between our paying jobs, foregoing vacations and often staying up late into the night. We're older now, and having such a full schedule is not as easy, especially as the kids get older and our time with them becomes even more precious.My career (non-eating disorders related) has taken a positive direction as of late, which means even less time for the site. Tony and I promised each other long ago that if we ever got into the position where we just couldn't focus on the site as it needs, it would be time to make a change. Like we always preach to all of you, we must take care of ourselves too.We have recently developed a relationship with a wonderful company called CRC Health. They are focused on providing recovery resources, for those suffering with addictions and eating disorders, both online and in real-time. They are the owners of the 4Therapy.com and eGetgoing websites, as well as Sierra Tucson. There are dedicated to providing more resources to those with Eating Disorders and to expand their reach so everyone has access to information and support.Tony and I wish you all the very best. Each of you CAN and WILL recover... you have that power within you... and we know the Something Fishy Website on Eating Disorders will continue to be a valuable resource to assist everyone with an Eating Disorder on their healing journey.On behalf of all of us at CRC Health, it is a great pleasure to welcome Something Fishy and its community to our family of services.   We want to thank Amy and Tony for their support and confidence and recognize the wonderful site and community they have developed. It is greatly appreciated.Since 1995, Something Fishy has been diligently offering assistance to those with eating disorders and their families. For more than 20 years CRC Health has been setting the standard of excellence in the treatment of addiction and other behavioral health disorders. Including Something Fishy into that philosophy enforces our commitment to creating a vision of delivering quality care to those suffering from eating disorders, and redefining the way in which people communicate and reach out for help.Over the past several years CRC has dedicated additional personnel and resources to providing the highest quality care by embracing the values of integrity, compassion and responsibility.  Incorporating Something Fishy into our collection of services accelerates CRC's strategy of creating a defining policy that offers more solutions for delivering eating disorder treatments, resources, support and information to those suffering and their loved-ones.CRC will carry on with an unwavering commitment to the Something Fishy readers by maintaining the integrity of the site.  We also want to thank Jik, BIBRI, and Kensington for their continued dedication and service.The non-profit organizations listed here can provide educational and written material, lecture information, referrals to treatment in your area, and more. Don't forget to also check out the Treatment Finder for a list of local therapists, treatment facilities, dieticians and support groups.The National Eating Disorders Association is the largest nonprofit organization in the U.S. dedicated to expanding public understanding of eating disorders and promoting access to quality treatment for those affected along with support for their families through education, advocacy and research. To achieve our mission, we have developed prevention programs for a wide range of audiences, we publish and distribute educational materials, we operate the nation\'s first toll-free eating disorders information and referral line at 1-800-931-2237, and we continually work to change the cultural, familial, and interpersonal factors which contribute to the development of eating disorders.Phoenix, AZ  85022 a fellowship of individuals who share their experience, strength and hope with each other that they may solve their common problems and help others to recover from their eating disorders.  People can and do fully recover from having an eating disorder.  In EDA, we help one another identify and claim milestones of recovery.To be a cohesive resource in providing eating disorder sufferers with a better chance of a cure. We accomplish this by educating Health professionals, Parents, Children, The Community and The Funding Community.NEDSP represents the first large scale screening for eating disorders. The program includes an educational presentation on eating disorders and/or related topics (body image, nutrition, etc.), a written screening test and the opportunity to meet one-on-one with a health professional. It also provides individuals with information about how to help friends or family members who may be suffering from an eating disorder.To promote, at the federal level, further investment in the healthy development of children and all at risk for eating disorders, recognition of eating disorders as a public health priority, and commitment to effective prevention and evidence based and accessible treatment of these disorders.The EDCLI is a non-profit organization devoted to prevention, education and support: prevention of eating disorders, education about eating disorders and support to sufferers of eating disorders, their families and their friends.A non-profit 501(c)(3) tax-exempt organization that strives to save lives through education, prevention, intervention, advocacy and future financial assistance for people suffering from Anorexia and Bulimia.The Sylphs is a non-profit, non-religious and non-party-political association which organizes people with an overeating disorder (that is eating for comfort and compulsive eating) and other people who sympathize with the objects of our association and who will work in its spirit.The Eating Disorders Action Group is a community based, charitable organization dedicated to promoting healthy body image and self esteem and to supporting individuals who experience disordered eating.Linda Omichinski, RD linda@hugs.com The center for information and resources about nondieting for adults and teens. We offer worldwide support and programs for people seeking a lifestyle without diets.It is important to realize that the information that appears on this Website is not meant as replacement for proper care from a doctor, therapists, nutritionist, support group, or other medical professional. Always seek the advice of your physician, therapist, dietician, or other medical professional, with any questions you may have regarding your health. Never disregard professional medical advice or delay in seeking it because of something you have read on this, or any other medical-related website. If you think you may have a medical emergency, call your doctor, therapist or 911 immediately. Something Fishy does not recommend or endorse any specific tests, physicians, products, procedures, opinions, or other information that may be mentioned on the Site. Reliance on any information provided by Something Fishy, Something Fishy Employees, volunteers or members, others appearing on the Site at the invitation of Something Fishy, or other visitors to the Site you use solely at your own risk. In no event shall Something Fishy, its licensors, its suppliers, or any third parties mentioned on the Site be liable for any damages resulting from the use of or inability to use the Something Fishy Site or its Content.The Something Fishy Website on Eating Disorder is meant to be used for informational purposes only, and to provide a place for peer-support to the friends and family of those suffering, and to those who suffer with Eating Disorders themselves. It is meant to give you some hope and incentive in reaching out for help, and to be a reference place of resources to get you started on your own personal road to recovery, through national organizations, local treatment options, on-line support, and links to other websites on the topic. Most of all it is meant as a reminder to everyone out there suffering, "you are not alone."Your privacy is important to us, but it is important to remember that the internet is a public place. Any information that we collect when you sign up for any Something Fishy service (bulletin boards, newsletter, ICQ or AIM lists, chatrooms) is completely confidential. Because of the nature of communication through the internet, we do not accept memberships to any area of the site from anyone who is under thirteen years of age without prior parental permission. If we find that a member is under the age of 13 their membership will be immediately suspended and an attempt to contact their parents will be made. This is in compliance with the Children's Online Privacy Protection Act. If you are over the age of thirteen, for your own safety we ask that when you do sign up for any service on Something Fishy, or anywhere on the internet, you please be careful with the personal information you choose to share including your last name, e-mail address, home address or telephone number.All written content, graphics and HTML documentation of The Something Fishy Website on Eating Disorders is copyrighted to the Something Fishy Website on Eating Disorders. All of the information contained on all pages (with the exception of material submitted by other people suffering, as noted) was written by Something Fishy, and is copyrighted as such. All content, data, logos and trademarks (collectively defined as "Intellectual Property") are the exclusive property of Something Fishy. (In rare cases copyright of certain elements are owned by a third party and is so indicated.)  All material contained on all and any Something Fishy Website pages is fully protected by the copyright and trademark laws of the United States and other countries. Any unauthorized use including but not limited to reprint and/or reproduction, transfer, or transmission, beyond what is received in prior written permission by Something Fishy, is strictly prohibited. To receive written permission to reprint or reproduce any content from this site, please contact us by e-mail.The material contained in the Something Fishy Website on Eating Disorders was obtained through many hours of research, reading many articles and books, and watching and participating in documentaries, but most of all through first-hand personal experience, and in talking and corresponding with many of those struggling with Anorexia, Bulimia and Compulsive Overeating, doctors, treatment centers, therapists, and members and volunteers of Eating Disorders Organizations. My personal and professional correspondence, research and experience continues daily.All listings that appear within the Something Fishy Treatment Finder have been submitted by the doctors, therapists, support groups, dietitians and treatment centers, for the intent of being listed on the Something Fishy Website for Eating Disorders. All listings appear exclusively under the copyright of the Something Fishy Website on Eating Disorders, and the submitting professional or listed organization. As with all areas of the website, this content, in part or in whole, cannot be reproduced without prior written permission.Read About Caron is a section that takes you through the story of a young woman struggling with Anorexia, as told by a friend. This material appears exclusively on the Something Fishy Website and it copyrighted to Something Fishy, Lisa Arndt (the friend who provides all updates on Caron) and Caron herself, as it is her story.Something Fishy may revise and update these terms and conditions at any time. Your continued usage of the Something Fishy Website ("Something Fishy Site," or the "Site,") will mean you accept any and all changes.The following is a list of the updates to the website. Because there are now so many dynamic areas of the site that can change daily (like the Treatment Finder), this list is no longer kept up-to-date.Fill out the form below in order to contact us as quickly and effectively as possible. Please understand that we get quite a bit of e-mail, so be patient waiting for a response. We will try to get back to you as quickly as possible. We cannot and will not answer specific medical questions better answered by your own doctor. We will not answer questions regarding books reports that can be answered within the site itself.If you are a doctor, therapist, dietitian, treatment facility, support group, hospital or other health practitioner that would like to advertise on the Something Fishy Website on Eating Disorders, read the guidelines below.In order to protect the integrity of what we do here at Something Fishy, we impose simple guidelines on placing advertising banners. Please read through them below before contacting us with questions, or to request pricing information. Advertising helps support this site and our goals to continue raising awareness, but we do not wish for it to become "tacky" or against the best interests of our visitors.At this time, advertising banners will only appear within the Treatment Finder, Special Bulletins, News, Organizations, Hotlines, Written Materials, Research, Reprinted Aricles by Professionals, Online Support Options, Newsletter Subscription, Family & Friends Support and Other Websites sections of the Something Fishy Website on Eating Disorders; There are several pages in the Recovery-Reach Out section that now also contain banners. These are all areas on the site in which members are most likely seeking further information or support from outside resources. Because of it's high visibility, there is also a banner on the main/home page.We do not allow any diet companies, or online drug stores to advertise on this site. There are NO exceptions to this. Any company selling diet products, diet pills, laxatives, diuretics, etc. or any product related specifically to weight loss, directly conflict with the mission of this site.Those who wish to advertise should fall under one of the following categories: Therapists, Eating Disorders Treatment Facilities, Nutritionists and Dieticians, Support Groups and 12-Step Groups, Eating Disorders Organizations and Companies or specific events relating to such, and other mental health and motivational resources. It is important to us in sticking with our mission to make available information related to helping those with Eating Disorders; Our advertising should reflect this.We reserve the right to reject any company or banner for placement on the Something Fishy Website. Any person or company who is not eligible, does not fit the guidelines above, or who has a banner rejected for any reason will be given a reason why said advertising opportunity or banner has been declined at the present time.The Something Fishy Website, and we plan to continue it long into the future. The idea has always been to help those suffering to come together and find support, to share their emotions and experiences, and to let every sufferer out there know that they are not alone.Remember It Hurts, this bulletin board is closely monitored to insure everyone's best interests -- and those wishing to post will have to register first. This is meant to be a place where sufferers of Eating Disorders can feel safe in sharing their experiences with each other, and find interactive support from each other.May 20, 2005: The Something Fishy Website on Eating Disorders got mentioned as one of "the best sites with constructive support", as opposed to some negative ED websites that discourage recovery according to a recent study."Dialogue between an affected teen and her parents is key, the researchers said. Concerned parents can direct their child to sites with constructive support in beating anorexia or bulimia, [Dr. Rebecka] Peebles said. She believes some of the best sites include somethingfishy.org or renfrew.org."With so much media attention on negative and triggering websites that encourage Anorexia and Bulimia as lifestyles, not as the truly incideous illnesses that they are, it is important for us to openly address this issue to the visitors of the Something Fishy site.Whether you are a new visitor, or someone who has been coming to the Something Fishy Website for years, it is important to understand that we are a PRO RECOVERY website. We have worked hard since 1995 to address Anorexia, Bulimia, Compulsive Overeating and Binge Eating Disorder as serious mental illnesses, ones that can not only lead to a lot of physical dangers, but terrible ongoing emotional turmoil. Eating Disorders are not about weight and food, though their symptoms would have everyone "on the outside" fooled into thinking so. These illnesses are about an inability to cope with life and stress; they are about low self-esteem and feeling out of control; and they are an internal power struggle for survival (read "This Child"; read "Prevention - Causes"). We encourage you to take your time and read through the website and learn as much about Eating Disorders as you can.Many things can be triggering to someone with an Eating Disorder -- where "triggering" means it can contribute further to a sufferer feeling badly about themselves. It has been our priority to do everything we can to provide as safe and as non-triggering an environment here as possible. There are no weights discussed on this website, no calorie amounts or discussion of body mass, and our online support community (bulletin board) has strict rules that forbid discussion of numbers and tips to promote a safe environment that encourages recovery. You will also  NEVER find any pictures here. If you want to see someone with an Eating Disorder, walk down the street and look at anyone... because anyone can suffer, and a woman or man does not need to appear emaciated nor obese to suffer from Anorexia, Bulimia, Compulsive Overeating or Binge Eating Disorder.Visiting websites that encourage Anorexia or Bulimia as a "lifestyle" is another signal that someone may be suffering with an Eating Disorder (think of an alcoholic who continuously hangs around with other drinkers, or a drug addict who keeps company with other addicts). It is an indication that the sufferer may be in denial, or may be looking to justify to themselves and those around them that their behaviors are okay, are safe, are "normal". While it can be comforting to a sufferer to be amongst those who understand, it is not safe or healthy for them to be in an environment where the behaviors of an Eating Disorder are encouraged or justified as okay, safe, fine or "just a way to lose weight" -- they are not. They are dangerous, self-defeating, self-destructive, and very often, life threatening.If you're looking for a picture of someone with anorexia, a pro ana website, or a website with anorexia tips and tricks (or any eating disorder tips), you've come to the wrong place... and we hope you'll reconsider.I have been in a place where I was sure that I was 'okay'... that I knew how to keep myself safe... that my behaviors didn't hurt others or that I could keep myself from going 'too far'. I have lived inside of denial. I have lived inside the place where having Anorexia made me feel 'special' or 'different' or 'deep and mysterious'... or where I thought it would get me more liked, more attention from those I needed it from, or even where I thought it would make me disappear so no one would notice me. I thought it made me 'strong'."What I have learned by getting through to the other side of recovery, by being recoverED, is that I'm a good person, and a much more complete person WITHOUT an Eating Disorder. I did not lose my compassion or my ability to understand, nor did I lose my creativity or ability to be unique. What I gained was more creativity and understanding, and a true appreciation for how special I truly am, and how truly unique we ALL are. What I know now is that it takes much more strength to recover, and to truly live life, than to hide away inside an Eating Disorder forever."The Something Fishy Website on Eating Disorders is not a site that will EVER encourage anything but for it's visitors to strive for recovery... to strive to find the strength to search for who you are, deep down underneith disordered behaviors. You are NOT your Eating Disorder, nor is your identity lost forever to behaviors you can't stop thinking about, or problems and stresses you feel trapped in. You can be free of your Eating Disorder... so you can be free just to be YOU.And for parents or other loved-ones who may stumble across this website, please take the time to browse around and to understand that not ALL websites dedicated to Eating Disorders are on the web with the purpose to encourage an unhealthy "lifestyle". Eating Disorders are an illness... and our goal here has always been to help, to reach out and offer hope, and to push for the recovery from this illness... the recovery of each visitor that enters the virtual door. We have done this since 1995, and will continue to do so long into the future.First and foremost, it is important to understand that Something Fishy as an organization to support Eating Disorders Awareness has NEVER, and will never, endorse, support or participate in any banner program that displays diet advertising. There are NO pop-ups on this site, programmed by this site, supplied by this site or displayed on your computer as a direct result of any of the Something Fishy Websites.Through the use of some of the software above (or others) you may unintentionally be installing "spyware" or "adware" on your computer. Spyware/adware collects information about your internet habits and continuously sends that information to a collection center (think about a marketing company that collects information about you so they can then send you advertising related to products you purchase or stores your shop in). You can read more about spyware and adware here and Pest Patrol can help you get rid of it.If you are entering the site through AOL, it is possible that AOL is causing you to receive random or "topic sensitive" pop-up ads. You can stop this from happening by using the latest version of AOL and clicking on the button on the top to block pop-up ads. You will not miss anything on the Something Fishy site as we do not utilize pop-up windows nor deliver pop-up ads.Refrain from using free desktop programs (like Search Engine, News, Weather utilities and other "Browser Helpers") that boast about making browsing easier or that deliver live constant content. A lot of these types of programs will constantly run in the background on your computer and will deliver "topic sensitive" or random pop-up ads. When you need news, stock quotes, weather or a search engine, it is best to just go directly to those sites when you need to.Remember, we do not display or supply pop-ads through any of the Something Fishy Websites. If you are getting diet ad pop-ups (or any pop-up ads), they are not coming from us. The only advertising banners you will ever find on the Something Fishy site are those for recovery programs and ED organizations (like the small one displayed at the top of this page), and they are NEVER displayed in pop-up windows. We do not allow or believe in any advertising for diet scams, diet pills, diet or exercise products, or spam related to diet or exercise products.The articles in the list below appear on other websites and have either been submitted, or we found the link through our own travels! If you know of a link to an article that should appear here, please send it by e-mail.Articles that appear below are from a newsfeed, and will be current up to the hour. We cannot control the content below, as it is automatically fed to our system from the Google and Yahoo! news sources. While we do our best to filter results so they are accurate, be aware that some articles may contain triggering content.We take the money we earn and put it in the bank for when we need it. We take the monitary gifts we get from others and sock it away in our piggy banks or bank accounts for a rainy day or for times of need.A Coping Bank is the same -- we take what we learn about coping alternatives and put them away, in the backs of our minds, for when we needs them. But during recovery that can be difficult, and during times of crisis it's often hard to think of what we should do. Make your own Coping Bank and you can go and make a withdrawal when you are feeling stressed, overwhelmed, confused (etc.) and in need of healthy ways to handle it.Take all these little sheets of paper and deposit them into your bank. You can always add more as time goes on, you can make deposits whenever the mood strikes you! You should initially try to get at least ten to fifteen ideas in your bank.Next time you are feeling sad, angry, overwhelmed, confused, or stressed-out, and need to find healthy ways to cope, go to your Coping Bank and make a withdrawal. Pull out one of those sheets of paper and do what it says! (remember to put it back in your bank after you've read it, so it's there for the future).We can probably all remember those fire-safety classes from elementary school, where we were taught what to do in case of fire. "Stop, Drop and Roll" always sticks in my head (for what to do if you're clothes are on fire).Sometimes in recovery we need to break things down to their simplest form. "What can I actually DO when I'm feeling stressed out, or guilty, or like I'm going to act on my impulses to engage in ED behaviors?"CONSOLE yourself. Take care of YOU. Give yourself comfort. Journal if you have to. Call your therapist or someone you trust and ask for help. Address your feelings. Communicate what you're feeling... really feeling. Validate yourself. Help yourself to cope in more healthy and productive ways