5722018235	Then Jon falls for the pretty new vet played by Jennifer Love Hewitt. During one of his frequent -- and frequently spurious -- trips to her animal hospital, she asks him to adopt Odie. He agrees, partly to please the doc and partly because, "I've always wondered what it was like to have a pet that likes to play with you."Odie is one of those impossibly friendly dogs who likes everyone. No matter how mean Garfield is to him, the pooch is always back, tail wagging. But one of Garfield's tricks inadvertently goes too far and Odie is dognapped by an unscrupulous animal trainer (Stephen Tobolowsky). Feeling slightly responsible, Garfield sets out to rescue him.Garfield follows his owner, Jon Arbuckle, to England and is mistaken for a look-alike, regal cat who has inherited a castle. Garfield savors the royal treatment afforded by his loyal four-legged subjects, but his reign is in jeopardy.Mongolia), where he charms the natives and wins their admiration for his singing. That's pretty much the movie, which switches between snippets of Pena encountering Tuvan musicians and singing before appreciative audiences. They also, in their enthusiastic bravado, accidentally blow up wonders of the ancient and modern world.But the sometimes intentionally flawed art direction is, well, almost flawless. The sets upon which the marionettes play out their overacted melodrama — near the Eiffel Tower in Paris, a Cairo street, Mount Rushmore, the Panama Canal — are detailed, expressive and an equisite complement to the stylized puppets.In the present climate, a good combat movie wouldn't be such a bad thing. "Tears of the Sun," the new Bruce Willis flick, isn't that movie.   With the nation's first all African-American starting lineup and a passionately dedicated coach, the underdog Texas Western basketball team surprised the nation by winning the 1966 NCAA tournament title  and changed the history of basketball.An underprivileged Mexican immigrant growing up in the poor section of Los Angeles, Santiago Munez seems destined to follow his father's path in life: laboring at menial jobs to earn just enough money to support his family. But when a British scout discovers his talent, Santiago follows his dream of playing professional soccer for the Newcastle United team in England.If you love history  the Civil War in particular  you'll want to see "Gods and Generals." But if you're more curious than committed, know that this Ted Turner production can feel every bit of its three hours and 40 minutes, not counting intermission.Based on Jeffrey M. Shaara's novel of the same name, "Gods and Generals" is a prequel to Turner's ample "Gettysburg," based on "The Killer Angels," written by Shaara's deceased father, Michael. The new film takes place during the early years of the war, roughly 1861-63, when the nation was just beginning to eviscerate itself. Covering such major battles as Bull Run, Fredericksburg and Chancellorsville, the movie is told more from a Southern perspective, as opposed to its predecessor, which tended to have a more Northern point of view.The movie also emphasizes the human scale of this massive national self-massacre. Given the enormous volume and the ephemerality of information available today, keyword searches are the appropriate future for information retrieval. The key to using search engines effectively, she argues, is to understand the business of information. The movie is so laid back that it's hard not to get excited when the musician starts to freak out because he's almost out of medicine and a member of the U.S. entourage has a heart attack.Not to worry. These doses of trouble are soon resolved: The drum-dwelling evil spirit believed to be responsible for the mishaps is taken care of by a shaman. Then the film continues to meander along in its carefree fashion."Gerry" is apparently what you get when you send director Gus Van Sant ("Drugstore Cowboy," "Good Will Hunting") and actors Casey Affleck (brother of Ben) and Matt Damon (friend of Ben) into the desert with a camera. They should've brought along the late Samuel Beckett or at least a couple of his plays. Decentralized ordering is allowed.As a dual-hat assignment with TO3, senior staff provides expert consulting in assigned areas of computer science and engineering, and participation in developing technical strategy, consulting, and conducting technical reviews. Then the movie might've been funny or meant something.Gerry is the name of both protagonists, who are introduced riding in a dusty car through Death Valley. Van Sant shows them in long shot, mid-shot and finally close-up, holding each shot interminably. It's a portent of longer shots to come.The Gerrys decide to park the car and walk the Wilderness Trail. But early on, they head off the marked trail to find "the thing." That's when you realize this isn't just a movie about a hike gone wrong. It's a Metaphysical Journey. Yea, though we walk through Death Valley ...They kid around. They get lost. They climb mountains to see where they are. They stage a mildly funny clown show when Affleck gets stuck on top of a rock. They get more lost. As time passes and hunger and thirst set in, they realize this could be serious.To his credit, Van Sant is trying something more experimental than his recent warm 'n' cozy movies like "Finding Forrester." As he circles his actors in loooong slow loops or fixes on them in loooooonger profile close-up, they improvise dialogue that's bargain-basement Beckett at best. Almost inevitably, your mind drifts. You find yourself putting together a grocery list. Wondering if you'll get home before the dog stains the carpet. Trying to decide why Casey is better-looking than his more famous brother.Yet, the film has a weird on-and-off appeal. You get hooked on its sheer contrariness -- a hard-headed attempt to balance its inherent pretentiousness with its marked prettiness. (The landscapes are gorgeous.) The film is inherently silly, yet egregiously sure of itself. So you drift back in, then out, then in, then ... If nothing else, "Gerry" is restful, though I'm not sure that counts as a recommendation.Description: When Berke Landers is dumped by the school's dream girl, he enlists the help of his best friend's sister to get back the girl. He even quits the basketball team and joins the school play. As the sister helps him learn his lines and practice his singing, they find more than friendship.When his mother is murdered, a young New York orphan follows her into the drug business to make his mark. But in prison he finally decides to leave the violence behind him and pursue a career as a rapper. A semi-autobiographical drama about  and starring  rap artist 50 Cent."What we're left with is a movie that, at times, barely seems to move (it feels like it lasts three hours) and a lead actor who doesn't just look bored, but delivers so many of his lines like he'd rather be anywhere else."Review: "Ancient Japan was a pretty strange place," says dead-eyed vamp Louise (Tricia Vessey) in director Jim Jarmusch's "Ghost Dog: The Way of the Samurai." The same goes for the film's version of modern New York. After all, the emotionless Louise has just watched her lover get shot to death, and she's addressing her comment to his contract killer. She even lends him her copy of the book she's reading: "Rashomon."The killer in question is Ghost Dog (Forest Whitaker), a gun-for-hire who follows the philosophy of the samurai, especially their utter devotion to their masters. His is the man who saved him as a teenager from thugs: Louie (John Tormey), a tubby, graying soldier working for gang boss Vargo (Henry Silva). Louise is Vargo's daughter, so you could say the contract whack of her boyfriend is an ultimate expression of parental disapproval. The problem is, Louise wasn't supposed to be at the crime scene when the hit occurred. So Vargo demands that Ghost Dog pay for his mistake by being "erased from the planet."What follows is a series of moves and countermoves as Ghost Dog tries to stay loyal to Louie, even as Louie's cronies try to track and kill him. It's a fairly equal match. Ghost Dog points out, "We're from different ancient tribes, and now we're both almost extinct."With one droopy-lidded eye and the other sharp and clear, Whitaker makes a fascinating lone wolf, radiating both outward alertness and inward zen. Jarmusch places him in a pungently off-key world: Thugs stare for hours at old kiddie cartoons, a large boat rests atop a tenement roof, and a schoolgirl is busy reading both "The Wind in the Willows" and the pulp-sex paperback "Night Nurse." Jarmusch enjoys this sense of culture clash, giving Ghost Dog a best friend from French Guiana (the lively Isaach De Bankole); it hardly matters that neither of them understands the other's language. As a tired Louie exclaims, "Nothing makes any sense anymore."As in his moody, kind-of western "Dead Man," Jarmusch takes a film genre and puts his own spin on it. His trademark restraint and deadpan minimalism are at work, but they're used to re-imagine this world of blood and vendettas in a fresh way. In this "Sopranos"-mad year, it's to his credit that he takes the overused gangster genre and makes it compellingly unfamiliar."Ghost Ship" sails into theaters just in time for Halloween. But audiences will feel more tricked than treated after sitting through this silly gorefest that wastes the talents of several good actors.Though "Ghost Ship" does offer a few - and we stress few - gotcha jolts, director Steven Beck ("Thirteen Ghosts") is more interested in staging "Friday the 13th"-like bloody deaths than true suspense. Needless to say, with such gruesome images as passengers being decapitated, slashed in half, gouged in the face and impaled, "Ghost Ship" isn't a film for the faint of heart.Karl Urban, Alex Dimitriades), quickly discovers the mysterious ship is the remains of the fabled Antonia Graza, thought lost at sea for more than 40 years. The ship, however, holds a murderous secret, along with a fortune in unmarked gold bullion.Before you can say, "Shiver me timbers!" the salvage crew becomes victims of unfortunate accidents. You can pretty much predict the order of their deaths by where the actors are billed in the opening credits.Although Margulies is stuck in a dead-end film, her magnetic intensity makes her the only character worth watching. Washington is mildly amusing as a soon-to-be-married crew member who thinks it's not really cheating if he does the nasty with a shapely ghost. Meanwhile, Byrne sleepwalks through his role while mumbling such lines as, "When the sea gives you an opportunity, you take it."Description: A cop on Mars is dispatched with her team to pick up an accused mass murderer at a mining outpost. When they arrive, they find there's something supernaturally fishy below the red planet's surface.He won 11 Oscars for "Titanic," but director James Cameron's obsession with the doomed ship has continued steaming ahead. That's good news if you want to experience the next best thing to riding a sub to the bottom of the North Atlantic and prowling around the sunken ocean liner.In the spectacular 3-D Imax documentary "Ghosts of the Abyss," Cameron travels with a handpicked crew of scientists and his old acting buddy Bill Paxton to take another look at history's most famous shipwreck. It's the first film made with the Reality Camera System, co-invented by Cameron. It generates 3-D imagery so convincing, you may want to take a plastic bag for seasickness.Paxton serves as our Everyman guide. While he's played men stuck in tight cockpits before (in both "Titanic" and "Apollo 13"), this time it's for real. And his very real anxiety pops when he gets sealed up with two crewmates inside a tiny Mir sub and admits it's "maybe a little more adventure than I wanted."More than two miles below the waves, fear changes to  wonder. There lies the rusting behemoth once considered, for five short days in April 1912, to be the man-made glory of the ocean before an iceberg sent it, and some 1,500 passengers, to a cold, black grave.We've seen much of the ship before, a lot of it in Cameron's 1997 epic, which interlaced its fictional love story with real wreckage footage. But "Ghosts" trumps those images with the depth and clarity of the 3D process and the probing work of a couple called Jake and Elwood.The 'bots penetrate the ship's fragile husk to show us things we've never seen before: the dining room's intricate leaded windows (still intact), a locked gate used to contain panicked steerage passengers, elaborately carved columns and mantelpieces, filigreed elevator doors, even Molly Brown's brass bed.This would all be eye-popping enough, but Cameron deepens the impact by superimposing photos of the ship's original interiors, helping orient us on the journey. He also overlays scenes of actors playing passengers, re-creating key moments from the ship's last night. The technique reminds us of the human cost involved, climaxing in a re-creation of the ship's final plunge: As Titanic goes down, the screen fills with photos of its victims, hurtling through the dark night sky like shooting stars.The film is such a visual triumph, it hardly matters that parts of it are arranged a little awkwardly. Scenes of the expedition's crew playing volleyball or eating borscht bump up against the eerie underwater images in ways that don't always gel. But when Cameron returns to the surface after one dive, the date is Sept. 11, 2001. News of the terrorist attacks in the United States brings an extra dose of sadness to this history of Titanic.For the record, it wasn't the worst maritime disaster. Torpedoed by a Soviet sub in 1945, the German ship the Wilhelm Gustloff took nearly 10,000 passengers with it, many of them refugees, including wounded soldiers, women and children. But with its luxe trappings and purported unsinkability, the Titanic has monopolized popular imagination with the power of a classical tragedy. "Ghosts of the Abyss" gives that tragedy its due.Terry Zwigoff's funny, sad and peculiar "Ghost World," one of the most engaging films of the year. Zwigoff, who made that anatomy of eccentricity "Crumb," co-wrote the movie with Daniel Clowes, upon whose graphic novel "Ghost World" is based.Because, despite their studied disaffection, they are not numb. Indeed, they may feel too much. At the sight of a kindred outcast spirit -- the school fat guy or a rule-breaking hick -- Enid's face softens in a flush of empathy. She reserves her enthusiasm for those who walk outside the lines swinging a bat."Ghost World" has a static energy that can be as listless as Enid's will, as though the air has been sucked out of it. Zwigoff uses simple compositions that echo Clowes' washed-out, one- dimensional comic panels. The film is more visually clever than it looks.It's around the end that "Ghost World" falters. Unlike Rebecca, Enid doesn't learn how to reconcile her temperament with society's. She alienates the world and cries about it. But this isn't so different from what most teen-agers do. Her despair is too callow to be tragic. And if she makes no effort to change, how can she be a failure?Epperson's  whodunit is pretty obvious. However, what works best here isn't the red-herring-strewn plot but its shrewd details. Raimi creates some ominously chilling visions for Annie. And the ensemble cast does well with the broadly drawn characters. Holmes nails the flirty country-club vixen while Reeves is properly doltish as the brutish husband. And Ribisi conveys his character's instability beautifully.Before it opened, it was infamous for being the movie that spawned L'Affaire Jennifer Lopez/Ben Affleck. Now that it's arrived at the multiplex, it can be judged for what it is: a disaster of spectacular proportions.Larry Gigli (Affleck) is a lunkheaded mob enforcer with an unpronounceable name ("It rhymes with 'really,'" he keeps saying). His new assignment is to kidnap the younger brother of a federal judge who has the power to put some crooked New York-based mob boss away for life. Next thing you know, we're in a bargain-basement version of "Rain Man." The brother, Brian (Justin Bartha), is a brain-damaged kid, irritating but a sweetheart, and as obsessed with "Baywatch" as Dustin Hoffman was with BlueLight Specials.As far back as Aristophanes, romantic comedies have needed obstacles to work. It used to be traditional notions of women's sexuality - no sex before marriage, etc. - were obstacle enough. But in the wake of birth control, women in the workplace, and a shifting social climate, that no longer works. Thus, the obstacles have become increasingly far-fetched - opposite coasts in "Sleepless in Seattle," or a wedding planner falling in love with the groom-to-be in Lopez's "The Wedding Planner." The roadblock in "Gigli" is that Ricki is a happy lesbian and even a sex god like, um, Gigli may not be able to sway her.The movie is airless and inane. You feel suffocated by scenes that have no weight. For instance, Gigli and Ricki drop by his mother's (Lainie Kazan) for some spurious non-reason. The real reason, of course, is so director Martin Brest can have a scene in which Mom gives her blessings to lesbianism, yet encourages the idea that lesbians can go both ways when the right fella comes along. (All the while, Kazan eyes J. Lo like a whale courting a piece of plankton.) And whatever chemistry Lopez and Affleck have in real life curdles on-screen. Watching him try to distract her sexually while she's reading a book is embarrassing. Think: Winnie the Pooh coming on to Catherine Zeta-Jones.Lopez is the only one who gets out of this alive - and even so, she's pretty badly maimed after delivering a sexual-politics monologue while doing some sort of exercise/meditation that must've been culled from the Kama Sutra.The script, written by Brest of "Scent of a Woman" infamy, gives her zilch, so Lopez falls back on her diva power, in all its tawny sexuality and ferocious me-ness. She gives you something to watch, even if it's something you'd prefer not to see.Christopher Walken stumbles through a small scene, trying to charge a superfluous character with some kind of oomph. And just when you think things can't possibly get any worse, Al Pacino shows up in a performance so ripely hammy you half expect him to turn into a pork rind.Review:  When teenager Diana Guzman (Michelle Rodriguez) stares out her tenement window at a young woman struggling home with an infant and a toddler, you know she's afraid she's glimpsing her own future.But in "Girlfight," writer-director Karyn Kusama's rousing debut, Diana decides to buck the self-fulfilling prophecies of urban surrender. Only one fistfight away from getting expelled from school, the trigger-tempered girl decides to channel her anger into boxing lessons at the gym where her kid brother Tiny (Ray Santiago) trains. She isn't exactly welcomed with open arms. "Why not aerobics?" one of the old regulars asks her.When a bully messing with Tiny winds up at the business end of Diana fist, he sneers, "I guess you never learned how to be a lady." No, not by his terms. But she learns how to take care of - and control - herself, even though she has to learn to punch without her father finding out.Sundance, plus the Young Cinema Award at the Cannes Film Festival, is a mix of clean storytelling, tough edge and gritty urban texture. The movie is produced by Maggie Renzi, longtime producer (and longtime companion) of independent film director John Sayles, who makes a cameo here as Diana's distracted math teacher. The association is appropriate. In her very first feature, Kusama delivers a work that shares Sayles' attraction to a working-class settings. "Girlfight" also has some of Sayles' clear-eyed but tender understanding of its characters. Everyone here  has more than one side, and Kusama loves their foibles as much as their strengths.She's also not immune to a shameless sort of plot twist that threatens to pit Diana against her own, newfound boxing boyfriend Adrian (Santiago Douglas) in the ring. The growing relationship between these two is as interesting as the fighting matches (which Kusama stages dynamically). We see how both Adrian and Diana gather self-worth first from their wins on the mat, then through the respect they give each other. As young as they are, they're both veterans of the rough life."Maybe life's just war, period." But "Girlfight" believably shows them learning how to win, or at least stay up on their feet. It's a crowdpleaser that never sacrifices its brain to the sucker-punch tricks of so many Hollywood films.Jolie provides the fireworks, but producer-star Winona Ryder gives the film its steadying, heartfelt center. The actress snapped up the rights to Susanna Kaysen's 1993 memoir of her two-year stint in an upscale psychiatric hospital in the late 1960s. But it took her almost six years to find a suitable director. She hit pay dirt with James Mangold ("Heavy," "Copland"), who eschews the genre's potential touchy-feely pitfalls and opts for a rip-roaring tone more akin to "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest.""Girl, Interrupted" leans a little too heavily on the '60s dictum that only the crazy are sane. And a last-act confrontation is as superfluous as it is over the top. But overall, the movie is a wonderful surprise, especially for those expecting a kind of women-as-victims update of "The Snake Pit."Vanessa Redgrave, once an icon of madness ("The Many Loves of Isadora"), as the imposing yet sympathetic head therapist; Jeffrey Tambor as a superficially foolish yet genuinely caring doctor; and Whoopi Goldberg, who may look like a cross between Angela Davis and Buddha in her '60s Afro and serape but who understands Susanna better than anyone else, telling her, "You're a lazy, self-indulgent little girl who's driving herself crazy."Jolie's role is a built-in showcase, but to her credit, she does many daring and unexpected things with it. Ryder is in charge of her camera-ready fragility and vulnerability, using it in a shrewdly nuanced portrayal that's the best work she's ever done.It's got too much naked skin and too big and fat of an R rating to be a bona fide teen movie. But set in a high school it is, with an unfathomable plot about an officious student council president who, one day, discovers a curvy porn star has moved in next door. To boot, the curtains on her bedroom window are wide open.Of course, the porn star with a heart of gold (and a stuffed teddy bear) falls for our nerd. They date. They kiss. And before long the senior prom looks like it's a backdrop for a new porn venture. But much of the film's lascivious nature is, at its very soul, a tease. Did we forget to say this was a feel-good Hollywood studio movie?A clear-eyed cousin of sorts to Cruise's 1983 top-10 box-office film (then it was prostitution, now its hard-core porn), "Girl Next Door" has sexual chemistry to burn. It doesn't even attempt to create a fresh screen milieu. When Cuthbert first strips, in slo-mo of course, the film's soundtrack pulsates with the same kind of entrancing tonal reverberations that audiences heard when Cruise and DeMornay immortalized their film with a steamy scene inside a Chicago subway car.Timothy Olyphant ("Scream 2" and HBO's "Deadwood") shows up as a porn director looking like he's channeling the moussed fashionata of "Blade" villain Stephen Dorff. His character is normally a paper-thin villain in this kind of film, but the script gives him extra bite, making him honestly friendly one moment and creepily edgy the next.Hirsch also has two geeky friends who'll make you laugh and a high school full of outrageous cliques. As one of the sports jocks shouts in a school meeting about the prom, "Security's going to be tight, so everybody get wasted before you show up!"Review: Patrice Leconte has made two of my favorite films - "Monsieur Hire" and "The Hairdresser's Husband" - so I was hardly surprised when his new picture, "Girl on the Bridge," began on such an enticingly dolorous and intriguing note.A spectacularly gorgeous gamin (Vanessa Paradis) - we're talking in the same league as Jean Seberg in "Breathless" - is making a confession to an off-screen presence (a therapist, we assume). We soon learn she's as stunningly depressed as she is stunningly beautiful. Barely in her 20s, she already sees her life as "a waiting room in which all sorts of people rush by with places to go, people to meet."They are, it turns out, a match made in movie heaven. She's suicidal. He's a professional knife thrower, always in search of a new target. They become a team, and suddenly their luck turns. Everything that happens is good. Her faith in him restores both his skill and his faith in himself. His faith in her . . . well, let's just say that soon she's flashing her smashing smile and back to sleeping around (though not with him, despite the undeniable erotic charge in their relationship).Filmed in a luminous black and white, "Girl on the Bridge" initially creates an aura of romantic intensity as well as a humorous look at the fringe life of a specialty act (knife throwers, we learn, never  follow silent acts).Part of the problem is the embarassing age difference between the two leads, which, of course, is a pointless complaint these days. More troubling is the way their relationship never  grows. At first we're engaged by these characters, but then we want something to grab us emotionally, to make us want them to stay together at all costs. And that simply doesn't happen.The movie wants to say things about luck and chance and the freakish fairy tale aspect of true love. But mostly it just says that if you ever feel like jumping off a bridge, you're more likely to be stopped if you look like Paradis than if you look like Janet Reno.Like the Tracy Chevalier novel on which it's based, the movie imagines a back story for the famous "Girl With a Pearl Earring," painted by Dutch master Johannes Vermeer in 17th-century Delft. Griet (Scarlett Johansson) is a Dutch girl rented out as a servant to the Vermeer household after her working-class father is blinded in an accident.But he takes an interest in Griet. Perhaps it's her inner stillness in the midst of so much mindless commotion. Perhaps it's the way she asks whether she should clean the studio windows (as ordered by others), noting that, in doing so, she'll change the quality of the light. Or perhaps it's because of her luminous skin and huge, watchful eyes.Because she's the only one granted access to Vermeer's inner sanctum - his studio - Griet is viewed by everyone else with suspicion and envy. For good reason, as her relationship with Vermeer subtly evolves from a servant with potential to a trusted apprentice to the model for one of the most haunting portraits ever painted.There's a hint of bashful Jane Eyre overpowering Mr. Rochester in their scenes together, which gives them a slight erotic tingle. But Webber wisely keeps the focus on the work and on the world that surrounds it. Inside Vermeer's cramped, candlelit studio, Griet is introduced to the mysteries of light, texture and shade, to the beauty of lapis lazul, to the secrets of the camera obscura. Outside, she's caught up in the tactile, crowded world of Delft, a bustling mercantile city with a teeming street life to rival Franco Zeffirelli's Verona in "Romeo and Juliet."Firth brings the requisite semi-banked fire to his role as the brooding artist whose ardor for his work is often heedless of the feelings of those around him. As always, the actor does the dashing thing flawlessly.Unfortunately, Webber lacks Chaplin's delicate way with a story. The transcendent richness of Eduardo Serra's cinematography and Ben van Os' production design only emphasizes the weakness of the script, which manages to be both slight and melodramatic. We're immersed in Vermeer's exquisite artistry, but we're kept distanced from the characters.At the very end, we're invited to gaze briefly at Vermeer's masterwork and, in that minute and a half, we connect more vitally with what's on screen than we have with anything in the preceding 97 and a half minutes. And perhaps that's the movie's point.Everything old is gloriously new again in "Gladiator," a sweeping, vibrant, eye-popping re-invention of the old sword-and-sandals genre that most of us thought was, if not gone with the wind, at least as tattered as Kirk Douglas' "Spartacus" toga.But before Maximus can make up his mind--frankly, he'd rather go home to his wife and kid--the emperor's devious (and deviant) son, Commodus (Joaquin Phoenix), seizes power. He slaughters his rival's family (a scene out of Sergio Leone) and orders Maximus himself murdered. But our hero somehow escapes, ends up a slave, is bought by Proximo (the late Oliver Reed) and trained as a gladiator.The upside is that Proximo knows star power when he sees it. And as Maximus brings his battle-honed skills into the arena, his boss smells the Big Time--i.e., Rome. The timing here is doubly fortuitous.First, Commodus has decided to play to the mob by feeding them a steady diet of bread and circuses in which death becomes spectacle (Wrestlemania in its purest form). Second, Maximus' long-simmering hatred for Commodus means one thing: that he longs to get within a sword's length of him. And that's something that superstardom in the arena can deliver.There's a touch of love stuff in the air, but only a touch. Commodus has certain incestuous yearnings for his far more talented sister, Lucilla (Connie Nielsen), who shares a sketched-in romantic past with Maximus (this part is frankly forced). More to the point, she has a young son, which gives her mad brother control over her, lest he harm the boy.But essentially what we get is pure Crowe, and that's something to crow about. The "pageant of death" that Commodus stages daily is as violent as it is jaw-droppingly watchable--a measure, perhaps, of our New Millennium jadedness. Yet standing at its center, always, is Crowe, hewing to his slogan "strength and honor."Crowe gives the picture its, well, brave heart. But unlike Gibson, he doesn't fight for freedom, lost love or country. He fights for revenge. He fights because he does it well and it gives him power. His is a joyless executioner's song--eerily modern in its swift, effective remorselessness.Description: When 16-year-old Ruby Baker's wealthy parents are killed in a car accident, she and her little brother go to live with their parents' best friends, the Glasses. But the strange glances and strained conversations soon reveal that the Glasses may not have been their parents' friends at all.Description: Starring in her first film, Mariah Carey plays a young singer who gets her big break. The movie is the basic story of a good girl with a lot of heart who finds herself catapulted to the top faster than she can handle.Predictable play-by-play slows 'Glory Road' by Bob Townsend A product of Walt Disney Pictures and action producer Jerry Bruckheimer, "Glory Road" trots out just about every cliche common to the sports movie genre. And even if you don't know anything about the true story behind the script, the feel-good ending won't come as a surprise. But what elevates it a bit above the familiar game-to-game, season-long format is the big-hearted and often humorous way it presents a pioneering basketball coach and his courageous team in the context of the racial tension and civil rights movement of the '60s.With the nation's first all African-American starting lineup and a passionately dedicated coach, the underdog Texas Western basketball team surprised the nation by winning the 1966 NCAA tournament title  and changed the history of basketball.An underprivileged Mexican immigrant growing up in the poor section of Los Angeles, Santiago Munez seems destined to follow his father's path in life: laboring at menial jobs to earn just enough money to support his family. But when a British scout discovers his talent, Santiago follows his dream of playing professional soccer for the Newcastle United team in England.If you love history  the Civil War in particular  you'll want to see "Gods and Generals." But if you're more curious than committed, know that this Ted Turner production can feel every bit of its three hours and 40 minutes, not counting intermission.Based on Jeffrey M. Shaara's novel of the same name, "Gods and Generals" is a prequel to Turner's ample "Gettysburg," based on "The Killer Angels," written by Shaara's deceased father, Michael. The new film takes place during the early years of the war, roughly 1861-63, when the nation was just beginning to eviscerate itself. Covering such major battles as Bull Run, Fredericksburg and Chancellorsville, the movie is told more from a Southern perspective, as opposed to its predecessor, which tended to have a more Northern point of view.The movie also emphasizes the human scale of this massive national self-massacre. Not just in the corpse-strewn battlefields and quieter moments with the generals and their men, but even in the opening credits, which appear against a dozen or more billowing flags. There are banners from everywhere: the 28th Massachusetts, the 3rd Arkansas, the 12th New York, the 24th Georgia.The movie treats the material with respect. The people who put it together have a deep, personal attachment to these events; they feel honor-bound to get every bridle, every epaulet, every battle plan absolutely right.However, "Gods and Generals" is not as good as "Gettysburg." For one thing, it's too diffuse  necessarily so, perhaps, since it covers more ground. And even buffs will notice that more could have been done to flesh out the characters. We get their courage, their valor and their prayers (hence the title, "Gods and Generals"; Lee and Jackson were both very religious).But there's not much emotional involvement. The decision was made  perhaps by some market-research nitwit trying to attract more women  that there should be scenes with the soldiers' wives and families. The notion must have been that those scenes would lend the movie an emotional tug. But they are a disaster  awkwardly acted and poorly written. Insider's tip: These bits make perfect bathroom breaks.Now, for the non-buffs. At times, the film can feel like a historical pageant, stiff and heavy-handed. Some scenes feel as if they've been inserted for the sole purpose of having Lee ride up and utter something famous.It's also difficult to tell one general from another. After cursory introductions, about all you've got to go on is a phantasmagoria of facial hair, from Lee's trim gray beard to Jackson's immense growth, which makes him look like he's trying to eat a carpet remnant.The acting is on a generally high level (with the exception of the womenfolk stuff). As always, Duvall invests his part with integrity and authenticity. He's a huge improvement over Martin Sheen, who played Lee in "Gettysburg." Lang's not bad as Jackson, but we see only limited sides of him. If half his prayers were cut, the movie would be closer to three hours.At least they didn't cut Turner's scene, as had been rumored. He appears about midway through the picture as part of the audience for a singalong performance of "The Bonnie Blue Flag." As he did in "Gettysburg," he plays Col. Waller Patton, great-great-whatever of Gen. George Patton, and even has one line.Not everyone who passes an afternoon at "Gods and Generals" will look as happy, but if you're interested in the details of our bloodiest national tragedy, here's your movie. Even so, you should know that this isn't so much the prequel to "Gettysburg" as it is the prequel to the six-hour DVD coming soon to a Blockbuster near you."Godsend" is another bad Hollywood movie. That's hardly a surprise. But it is a shame, because it has a fascinating and timely premise -- the enormity of the ethical and scientific questions that would follow from cloning a human."Godsend" is also a big tease, because it features top-notch Greg Kinnear and superstar Robert De Niro, as well as Rebecca Romijn-Stamos, who takes what could have been another eye-candy role and turns it into a pretty convincing portrayal of a tormented mother. In fact, for the first 30 minutes, she and Kinnear get things off to such a promising start that it's all the more maddening when, during the next hour, the confusing and implausible script and ham-fisted directing sink this stinker.The movie opens with Paul and Jessie Duncan (Kinnear and Romijn-Stamos) throwing a party in their downtown New York apartment for their son Adam (Cameron Bright, showing remarkable range) on his 8th birthday. The boy is precious to them, not only because he's smart and sensitive, but because he's their only child, since (as it's soon revealed) Jessie can never conceive again.As fate would have it, the next day the happy little family is shattered when Adam is killed in a freak accident. But sooner than you can say tragedy and grief, snow is falling in a shadowy graveyard, and Richard Wells (De Niro), a pioneering fertility doctor, sidles up in the guise of a dark angel, offering hope beyond imagining -- or is it a Faustian bargain?Some scientific jargon gets tossed around, and soon the Duncans have relocated to a small, isolated Vermont town, where Wells engages in research and a bit of secret surgery at his Godsend Institute. Using cells from Adam's body, he creates a clone of the boy, and then somehow implants it into the womb of Jessie, who nine months later gives birth to the new Adam.Flash forward eight years. Life has been good, thanks to the many gifts bestowed by wicked "Uncle Richard." And Adam is once again the good son. That is until his 8th birthday, when he suddenly begins to experience ghastly night terrors and starts drawing wacky pictures.The film smartly pokes fun at several American-made summer epics -- like Jurassic Park, Independence Day and Twister. One witty turn features a trio of Godzilla chasers known as the Godzilla Prediction Network.Godzilla 2000's answer: In an early confrontation with the Japanese military, a fusillade of dozens of missiles relentlessly peppers the monster again and again with ever-violent explosions. Once the smoke finally clears, Godzilla stands tall.Adam Verver (Nick Nolte), America's first billionaire, collects European art as voraciously as his peers collect racehorses and mistresses. A widower, he and daughter Maggie (Kate Beckinsale) have become particularly close.Her solution is to throw her father together with her unattached school chum, Charlotte (Uma Thurman). It works and they, too, are wed. What neither Maggie nor Adam knows is that their spouses were once lovers.Maury Povich probably does 10 shows a year on stuff like this (My Stepmother Slept With My Husband!). However, James takes a more sophisticated approach, tracing  the social, emotional  and psychological fallout as the Amerigo-Charlotte relationship grows more heated and they grow more indiscreet. Their behavior does not go unnoticed, especially by Fanny Assingham (Anjelica Huston), the socialite who introduced Maggie to Amerigo.Northam is obviously a British actor playing an Italian. However, he's a very fine British actor. It makes a difference. As for Thurman, she's the real golden bowl here. She looks gorgeous in her succession of to-die-for outfits, but she's the hairline fracture in the ensemble. She's not bad, but she's unable to imbue her character with the complexity that would give the movie a crucial spark.Anyway, Memphis agrees to make good on Kip's fumble. He doesn't have much choice: Otherwise Calitri plans to trash-compact his brother at his junkyard hideaway. The deal: Memphis has to heist 50 specific cars for Calitri within three days - sort of a scavenger hunt for the low-jack set.The showiest member of the team is Memphis's ex-gal Sway - and may I say again, don't you love these names?  She's played by Jolie, who gets a knockout glamour-tough entrance - flat on her back wreching at the under-guts of a car, her porcelain face haloed by blond dredlocks.Written by Scott Rosenberg, "Gone in 60 Seconds" isn't believable for a second, and it has plot holes you could drive all 50 cars through, side-by-side. It throws in bits of faux touch-feely drama, like Memphis and Kip's uneasy brotherly relationship. Memphis and Sway rekindle their relationship at the least likely moment. The villain is assigned his standard-issue effete tic (Calitri is a woodworking hobbyist specializing in Mission-style furniture). And the black characters (except for Lindo) are used for the kind of comic relief that uncomfortably verges on old, racist feets-don't-fail-me-now  humor.It's a Kmart life for Justine (Jennifer Aniston), a checkout clerk at the Retail Rodeo and the protagonist of "The Good Girl," a low-budget independent film that's counting a lot on her name to sell it.Justine is being drained and killed by her life. She's 30 years old and she spends her days ringing up pantyhose pand eye shadow. She spends her nights with her husband, Phil (John C. Reilly), an amiable painter/doper who plops himself in front of the TV, smoking weed with his partner and fellow stoner Bubba (Tim Blake Nelson). It's hardly surprising she wants "to run or scream or cry." But she does nothing, except wonder if there are others out there like her with enough courage to "plan their escape."Holden (Jake Gyllenhaal), a moodily intense 20-year-old who still lives with his parents but believes there's poetry in him. His "slave name," he says, is Tom, but he chose Holden in honor of "The Catcher in the Rye," the book of choice among many moodily intense 20-year-olds, whether they live with their parents or not.The pair start out sharing lunch and confidences about how no one "gets" them. Before long, they're lovers  though it's not what you'd call a grand romance. A typical tryst takes place in front of the Chuck E. Cheese; from there, they go to the local no-tell motel.Will they be discovered? Will she turn from good girl to bad girl permanently? Make civics come alive by downloading Power Politics III and letting your high school students manage a presidential election campaign, past or present.  In one of the film's better scenes, Justine launches into a long monologue, explaining why she doesn't want to continue the relationship, with all the guilt and potential hurt it's caused. He listens intently, then says, "Well, can't we go to the motel?""The Good Girl" is already being touted as the movie in which Aniston finally sheds her Rachel character from "Friends." Frankly, this dismisses her work in films such as "Picture Perfect" and "The Object of My Affection," which weren't Rachel retreads and showcased her unique gift for romantic comedy.However, the script and the direction aren't worth these actors' time or talent. Director Miguel Arteta and writer Mike White are probably best-known for the eccentric comedy "Chuck & Buck." You hang with their new movie for a while, hoping it will pull off the balance of deadpan comedy and slightly poignant soap opera it intends. But these guys apparently studied Terrence Malick's "Badlands" and Jonathan Demme's "Melvin and Howard"; "The Good Girl" apes their ruralized, affectless tone, and Aniston's monologues are a blatant rip-off of Sissy Spacek's in "Badlands."But unlike the other movies, this one is suffused with a snotty condescension. The filmmakers are playing to the Big Boys in New York and L.A. To that end, they mock the kind of folks they don't understand, ones they figure the power-lunchers don't care to understand, either. They want the picture to be goofy in some incredibly smart and original way. All they manage is the sort of thing that could elicit a few private-screening-room snickers.Aniston shouldn't take the fall for this, and here's hoping she gets some kudos, regardless of what people think about the rest of the picture. "The Good Girl" is a small independent movie that thinks it's a better small independent movie than it is.As Bob, the good thief of the title, he plays a gambler and sometime criminal who finds himself out of luck and out of heroin, his drug of choice. Bob's the kind of guy who claims he won his Picasso painting in a bet with the artist himself. They were at a bullfight; Bob, being Bob, bet on the bull.When we meet him, his current losing streak has gone on longer than the others. That's why -- even though his police chief pal Roger (Tcheky Karyo) regretfully warns him that the next offense will mean jail -- Bob agrees to mastermind the theft of some priceless paintings hanging in a Monte Carlo casino.Bob's possible redemption comes through his kindness to a 17-year-old named Anne (Nutsa Kukhianidze, looking like she just walked off the set of a '60s New Wave film). Confident as only beautiful teenage girls can be, she's certain she can take care of herself. Bob knows better and becomes her protector. Like a Bogart character, he's a moral immoralist.Jordan makes good use of the South-of-France setting. He drives us down the same picturesque winding roads that Cary Grant and Grace Kelly shared in "To Catch a Thief." He takes us into the ragged back streets of the Riviera, where a dark bar is slashed by the brilliant reds, blues and yellows of a pool table. He makes "The Good Thief" look and feel like a better movie than it actually is.Nolte is perfectly cast as this charming loser. The problem is, he knows it. Having gone through his own downward spirals, Nolte recognizes this could be The Role that turns everything around, like John Travolta's in "Pulp Fiction" or Bruce Willis' in "The Sixth Sense." It's the comeback his Oscar-nominated performance in "Affliction" was supposed to deliver.Nolte is like Martin Scorsese at last month's Oscars -- it means too much to him. Some of the character's raffish attractiveness comes through, but we also sense his pain -- the actor's, not the character's. Nolte is heartbreakingly eager here, and his neediness permeates the picture.A young couple's marriage is put in jeopardy by high-society gossip of a blossoming affair. Robert Windermere is accused with providing a secret allowance for Mrs. Erlynne, a vampish older woman of ill repute, while his wife Meg courts the attention of Lord Darlington, a notorious playboy.A young singer turns his back on God and his father's church when tragedy strikes. He returns years later to find the once powerful congregation in disarray. With his childhood nemesis creating a "new vision" for the church, he is forced to deal with family turmoil, career suicide and relationship issues that send him on a collision course with redemption or destruction."Gossip" isn't really worth talking about. The latest cynical bid for teenagers' pocket change, it features the requisite hot WB star (Joshua Jackson) backed by hunky-pretty co-stars. They play students enrolled in some vaguely Northeastern college (actually Toronto), where the curriculum consists of partying, having sex and changing into new clothes.Lena Headey (perky but fatally bland) plays Jones, who rooms with fellow students Travis (Norman Reedus), a geeky, creepy art student, and Derrick (James Marsden), the spoiled rich boy whose enormous loft space that they share could house a fleet of Cessnas.In their journalism class, their professor (Eric Bogosian, gruffly overacting) lectures on the fine line between news and gossip. So Jones comes up with a sneaky way to fulfill a class assignment: She and her roomies plant the rumor that snooty, chaste rich girl Naomi (Kate Hudson) has gone all the way with her beau Beau (Jackson) during a late-night party. In no time, natch, this slander has snowballed into whispered tales that include kinky sex and rubber panties.Naomi ups the ante when she hears the rumors herself; unable to remember what exactly did happen that night, she charges Beau with rape. Angry arguments and plot twists follow, until finally "Gossip" heads toward a surprise ending too elaborate and implausible to satisfy.The movie wants to be a mixture of "Dangerous Liaisons," "Shallow Grave" and "Disclosure," but it's tin-eared and shallow. It makes last year's shrill date-rape movie "Body Shots" seem a work of sensitivity and depth. Worse, all the characters are unlikable, especially swaggering, oversexed Derrick and the geeky, creepy Travis.TV veteran David Guggenheim ("ER," "Party of Five") makes a showy feature film debut in all the wrong ways. Instead of delivering intriguing characters or suspense, he seems more interested in moody lighting and the tchotchkes crammed into Derrick's swank loft.Review: It's not a good sign when a movie starts to bore you even before the actors appear onscreen. That's the effect of the camera's lugubrious crawl through an elegant drawing room at the start of "The Grandfather," a Spanish movie that tries to blend a pulp-fiction plot with pastoral scenery and old-fashioned nobility.After ambling through a half-hour of talky exposition, the movie's story kicks in, becoming a turn-of-the-century variation on Shakespeare's "King Lear." The count is the Lear figure, his granddaughters a bifurcated version of loyal Cordelia, while their aging tutor, Coronado (Rafael Alonso), is the faithful Gloucester figure to the old man. Lucrecia and the townsfolk, who support her every whim because of her financial and political clout, are the upstarts who wish to shove the old man out of the way.That becomes especially crucial to Lucrecia once she realizes that the count knows her secret: that one of her daughters is illegitimate. The count determines to discover which of the two is his true heir, even at the cost of exposing their mother's infidelity.Despite the melodrama of the plot, it's laid out with such talkiness that viewers will be either mesmerized or irritated. If you let yourself get on director Jose Luis Garci's languid wavelength, you might enjoy some retrograde pleasures and the coastal Spanish landscape. In case you start to fade out, the movie throws in repetitive, sentimental music by Edward Elgar and Erik Satie to underscore every emotion.Review: You know the makers of "The Green Mile" are doing something right when you find yourself getting teary-eyed over the fate of an injured mouse. At the same time, you can't quite ignore how shamelessly, if skillfully, you're being suckered."Mile" is exactly the sort of package Oscar voters love: It has period costumes, the kind of burnished cinematography that screams "quality," a script that flirts with big questions (race, justice, morality and mortality), a hefty dose of late-1990s New Age spirituality and, most importantly, Mr. Oscar Bait himself, Tom Hanks.Hanks plays Paul Edgecomb, head guard on death row of a Southern prison in 1935. His cellblock is called "the Green Mile" because of the lime-colored floor the prisoners walk one last time on their way to Old Sparky, the electric chair. The newest inmate is a pile of muscle called John Coffey (Michael Clarke Duncan). Mixed in between are news reports about his various setbacks.About an hour passes before Lawrence addresses the subject of his troubled past, which began with a 1996 incident in which police found him, armed and disoriented, in the middle of a busy Los Angeles intersection. Despite his size, he's a tremulous, childlike thing, scared of the dark; it's hard to see him as a man convicted of the brutal murder of two little girls.The enigma of Coffey's identity is at the core of "Mile," which gradually reveals his supernatural healing abilities. The movie also spends time with other prisoners, including the sociopathic Wild Bill (Sam Rockwell) and the calmer Eduard Delacroix (Michael Jeter), who strikes up a friendship with a mouse he calls Mr. Jingles.Near the end, "Green Mile" verges on the touchy-feely territory you get from Robin Williams dramedies. It's so determined to make you cry that you pretty much have to submit. Otherwise, you might realize that you've just paid for a manipulative blend of aw-shucks mysticism, melodrama, socially conscious uplift and jokes. As unalike as all these elements are, Darabont marshals them with remarkable skill. As played by Jamie Kennedy, Brad Gluckman -- who prefers to be called B. Rad, despite the fact that he's all salt and no pepa -- is a privileged Malibu kid who wishes he'd grown up in South Central Los Angeles.  The connecting tissue is the melancholy shadow he casts over the whole movie, a hint of autumn and inevitable decay that pays off at the end with a poignant reinterpretation of what "the green mile" means. His work is like a conjurer's trick. Calvin gets his shot at basketball stardom when he's chosen randomly to play against his hero, Tracy Reynolds (Morris Chestnut), during halftime at a Los Angeles Knights game. You know it's all fake, and it shouldn't work. But while you're watching, you can't keep your eyes off of it.Rockwell all do sharp work. James Cromwell is touching as the warden, trying to manage his jail while coping with personal tragedy. And Bonnie Hunt, usually tapped as comic relief ("Jerry Maguire"), provides a lived-in sexiness that elevates her small role as Paul's supportive wife.Even the tiny roles are superbly cast. Gary Sinise turns up for one scene as a lawyer. When her brother is killed by a drunk driver, after she'd coerced him to sneak out of the house, the song in Terri's heart is gone.So she turns down an invitation to spend three weeks at a prestigious music school in Los Angeles. Graham Greene has a blink-or-miss-him part as another prisoner, while Harry Dean Stanton steals scenes as a crusty trusty. Patricia Clarkson appears as Cromwell's fading, ill wife, a far cry from her standout turn as a German junkie in "High Art."Is "The Green Mile" a work of art? Not really. But it's a superior piece of manufacturing, meticulously crafted, absorbing and beautifully acted. Folks are gonna love it. Like most of King's books (even the ones that scare the trousers off you), it's resolutely square at heart. And it's deeply satisfying, even when you know it's all a bunch of hokum.A detention camp probation officer creates a high-school-level football team from a ragtag group of dangerous teen inmates as a means to teach them self-respect and social responsibility. But first he must first overcome  resistance from his skeptical bosses and coaches at rival high schools who don't want their players mixing it up with convicted criminals on the football field.It's a skateboard road-trip picture about four dudes from Chicago who drive and skate their way west at the end of their high school education. Every stop along the way looks like L.A., but that's nitpicking.There's the ambitious Eric, who dreams of turning pro, and Dustin, who has been saving for college and should know better. Matt is the generic gross guy in this teen-formula comedy. And Sweet Lou is the dude with the ride, the van that will allow them to live and ride their dream.They're chasing a ritzy bus tour of pro skaters hither and yon, trying to get noticed, trying to get signed to a sponsorship. At every turn, they run into an obnoxious adult or some boarder who has already been signed who is there to tell them, ''It'll never happen.'' Ahh, but they haven't seen the finale, a skate-off challenge in Santa Monica that is, unlike the rest of the movie, expertly staged and filmed.Review: When old Harry (Richard Harris) scares his grandkids with a campfire tale of a hungry bear, he makes amends by telling them a remarkable adventure he had at their age. That's the start of "Grizzly Falls," a sweet but action-packed tale about a boy, a bear and the bond between parent and child  even when they're not of the same species.As Tyrone and his Native American tracker, Joshua (Tom Jackson), search for Harry, director Stewart Raffill takes the right amount of time to develop a relationship of trust between the boy and the bear. Harry tries to run away. She cuffs him for it. She offers him a feast of grubs, while he treats her to her first taste of cooked fish.For all its scenic vistas and action scenes, "Grizzly Falls" is really about something very domestic: the value of family bonds. The crux is Harry's desire to be loved by the world-traveling father he has rarely seen. It's to screenwriter Richard Beattie's credit that the theme comes through without the sort of sentimental overstatement that mars many family films.The Grudge is the curse of one who dies in the grip of a powerful rage. Those who encounter this murderous supernatural curse die and a new one is born - passed like a virus from victim to victim in an endless, growing chain of horror.Like Japan's creepy "Ringu," which became "The Ring" with Naomi Watts and generated $129 million, the sometimes creepy "Ju-On" has morphed into the Americanized "The Grudge." Directed by Takashi Shimizu, who wrote and directed the original, the new film is so red, white and blue that even though it's set in Tokyo, the star is Sarah Michelle Gellar (aka TV's Buffy). Most of the cast seems to be from the States, too. Which sort of makes you wonder why so many young Americans are living in ultra-expensive Japan. Must have been a run on Tokyo after that little indie charmer "Lost in Translation."It's not just any old house, but the exact same house used in "Ju-On." The house is cursed with noisy bumps and creaks, a screeching black cat, a little boy (stuck in a closet sealed with tape, no less) and a stringy-haired female entity who doesn't take kindly to those who've chanced upon her domain.Despite the small differences,  "The Grudge" is a little creepier than the original. The American version's creepy-crawling phantom is used a little more sparingly and is more opaque, leaving the moviegoer's imagination to fill in some of the physical horrors.Inverting the racial politics of "Guess Who's Coming to Dinner," this version casts Bernie Mac as the well-to-do patriarch who is surprised  make that, appalled  when his smart, beautiful daughter brings home a white boyfriend.Review: On the surface, "Guinevere" sounds like grist for a grim feminist diatribe about our culture's wink-wink, nudge-nudge approval of older man/younger woman pairings.  The nuclear age has altered power politics in a way that was already evident in the U.S.-Soviet competition. But instead of a tongue-lashing, writer-director Audrey Wells has delivered a sweet, rueful, somewhat sorrowing love letter. And her movie is so achingly perceptive that one can't help but wonder whether it's a bit autobiographical.Harper Sloane (Sarah Polley from "The Sweet Hereafter") is a bright, well-bred college grad headed to Harvard Law School in the fall. Which, of course, is nothing less than what her wealthy San Francisco family expects of her. But Harper also is a sensitive, complex young woman who's spent too much of her life doing exactly what her family expects of her. As a result, she lacks self-confidence and experience.Enter Connie Fitzpatrick (Stephen Rea), the 50-ish scruffy, ironic photographer at her older sister's wedding. His attention both flatters and scares Harper. But he seals the deal by (1) keeping his promise to keep her out of all the family group portraits, and (2) sending her an exquisite candid shot of herself.She moves into his artist's loft and becomes the latest in a long line of "Guineveres"  beautiful yet malleable young things to whom he can impart the joys of sex, Sartre, jazz, art and late-night bull sessions with his opinionated bohemian buddies over pitchers of beer (among them is a former Guinevere played by Gina Gershon).It would be easy to dismiss Connie as a self-serving lecher who needs the validation of an adoring young woman by his side. Certainly that's one aspect of him, one that's made harshly clear when Harper's mother (Jean Smart) discovers what's going on. This coldblooded, blue-blood mom delivers a devastating assessment of Connie that's as cruel as it is, alas, accurate. Having asked him why he doesn't like women his own age, she answers the question herself, saying, "No real woman could ever stand in front of you with awe in her eyes."What Mrs. Sloane can't  and never will  see is Connie's odd selflessness. She doesn't notice or care that her daughter has blossomed under his tutelage. That she has become more confident, more certain of her self-worth. Nor can she see that, deep down, Connie is all too aware of his failings. And of his ever-more-foolish future. After all, even Warren Beatty settled down at 60.The picture loses some steam toward the very end as Harper (and we) are forced to recognize Connie's diminishing powers. A last-act gathering of all the Guineveres is more a good idea than a good scene. In India, where British and American companies can hire workers at one-tenth the cost of employees at home, writes Arundhati Roy in her new book, Power Politics (South End Press). And Wells' well-meaning portrait of Connie's aging-radical cronies is a rainbow coalition cliche.But there is much wisdom here. And a canny ear. And some flat-out gorgeous acting. Smart is frighteningly sharp as the controlling mother; her tell-off scene is a stunner. So is Gershon, cast as a deflating Cassandra figure to Harper's romantic notions. The raffishly rumpled Rea  you know him from "The Crying Game"  hits a perfect balance between rescuer and user.At the heart of "Guinevere" is a salute to a gallant spirit, flaws and all. The movie looks back, not in anger, but with a sadder-but-wiser gratefulness. As Harper says, "If you're supposed to learn from your mistakes, Connie was the best mistake I ever made."Neeson is an undercover DEA agent so stressed out by a failed sting operation that he joins a therapy group. They are a pathetic bunch of aging yuppies bitching about how they hate their jobs and their bosses. When Neeson starts telling about his activities, they are shocked.Neeson's new assignment is to act as the middleman in a big-money deal between a vicious mobster, Fulvio Nesstra (Oliver Platt), and an equally gun-happy Colombian drug dealer, Fidel Vaillar (Jose Zuniga). Neeson retains his cool in dealing with the toughs, but inside he is churning.Neeson continues his operation, desperately striving to keep the two parties from killing each other while struggling to maintain his cover. "A Comedy of Errors" with a feminist twist, "White Chicks" is as outrageous as the escapades of the Hiltons, and a lot more appealing.Review: In this age of mafiosi hiring shrinks on screens big and small, Jimmy "the Tulip" Tudeski (Bruce Willis) is an old-fashioned hit man: He doesn't sweat rubbing someone out, and he sleeps just fine at night. It helps that neither the Colombian nor the Mafiosi are too bright. It doesn't help that someone back at DEA is trying to sabotage him."Gun Shy" is the first directorial effort of Eric Blakeney, who also wrote the script. He shows real promise with clever dialogue and plotting, and especially with creating a gallery of intriguing characters.Liam Neeson, best known for straighter heroic roles in films such as "Schindler's List" and the "Star Wars" prequel, reveals a sharp talent for comedy. It's refreshing to see a hero with failings, however intestinal.Sandra Bullock shines with her usual caustic style, a welcome counterweight to the all-male doings. She is also the film's producer, and has exercised admirable restraint in not giving herself more involvement in the main plot.A Fu Manchu mustache helps give more menace to the usually affable Oliver Platt. He is just as unhappy with his job as members of the therapy group. His father-in-law, Don Minetti (Frank Vincent), berates him, and his wife (Mary McCormack) excoriates his incompetence. What's more, he claims to be the only Italian who can't grow tomatoes.Our Indian hero, Ramu (Jimi Mistry), has always dreamed of Hollywood. Even as a kid, he would sneak out of a Bollywood musical and sneak into "Grease." Now a dance teacher, he specializes in middle-aged ladies in saris, telling them to "Move your feet to the beat of your heart."Finally, he takes his own advice and goes to New York, where his heart beats and where he intends to become the next John Travolta. Instead, he becomes the next waiter to serve vegetable biryani to cranky New Yorkers. No wonder he jumps at the chance to star in a low-budget picture produced by Ramrod Productions. Initially, he doesn't understand what writer/director Dwain (Michael McKean) means when he asks about Ramu's "baloney," but once on set he realizes he's starring in a porn movie. Worse, when Dwain yells, "Lights! Camera! Action!," Ramu can't get into, um, action, despite the strenuous efforts of his co-star, Sharrona (Heather Graham).So it's back to the biryani biz. However, his life changes when he helps cater a party thrown by chic Upper East Side socialite Chantal (Christine Baranski) for her trend-hopping daughter Lexi (Marisa Tomei). The hired swami passes out and Ramu is pushed into his turban. Using his old dance-lesson skills and some of Sharrona's Zen-of-sex philosophy, he's a huge hit. Even Chantal is impressed: "I thought we were just going to do some heavy chanting.""The Guru" is one of those two-steps-forward-one-step-back movies. Some of the dialogue is laugh-out-loud funny. Lexi feels less guilty about her wealth because she's served meals to the homeless: "Meals I would eat, if I still did carbs."The supporting cast is dotted with good performers, especially McKean and Baranski. A porn star with more edge inThe ultimate porn-cutie in "Boogie Nights, Graham is enjoyable, but she can't find a consistent tone. Tomei, by contrast, keeps working her character's limited options. She's a terrific comedy actor, and it's a shame that even her Oscar win for "My Cousin Vinny" hasn't landed her better parts.Mistry, an up-and-coming British actor, is all charm; he holds this often flimsy film together. And when he and Graham lead an all-singing, all-dancing cast in the Bollywood version of "You're the One That I Want," just try not to grin."The Guys," based on Anne Nelson's 2001 play, faces a different problem. Written as a heartfelt response to the atrocity of Sept. 11, the piece debuted in early December, less than three months after the tragedy. A simply mounted, one-act, two-character drama, "The Guys" was a sorely needed Band-Aid for a traumatized city. Taking a cue from The New York Times' prize-winning obituary project, the play concerned a devastated New York Fire Department captain who asks a writer to help him compose eulogies for his men lost when the World Trade Center collapsed.In the movie, the captain, Nick, is played by Anthony LaPaglia, and the writer, Joan, by Sigourney Weaver, who created the role onstage. Aside from the addition of a few minor characters and scenes of Weaver doing New Yorky things like walking the Upper West Side and riding the subway, the play is pretty much intact. Nick slowly, stumblingly articulates his feelings while Joan listens, takes notes, asks prodding questions.The movie's problem is, it's a tweener. Too much time has passed. Not enough time has passed. Two years later, the anguish Nelson chronicled has become a pain remembered -- still fresh, but now experienced through the relentless filter of time. Lacking the raw immediacy in which it was conceived, the play's flaws are more visible. We see the sentimentality, the schematic seams.The result would be "Half Past Dead," which fails as miserably at personalizing the leaden Seagal as it does at injecting any note of credibility into the idea of taking the island prison out of mothballs.After such action hits as the "Under Siege" movies, Seagal made a string of bombs and was out of sight for a few years till a comeback last year with "Exit Wounds," which debuted as the No. 1 flick at least partly because of the appeal of his co-star, rapper DMX.This time, Seagal's teamed with two rappers, Ja Rule and Kurupt, and "Half Past Dead" is awash in hip-hop tunes and music-video quick cuts, all intended to bring youth appeal to a paunchy, fiftysomething hero.Before you can say "willing suspension of disbelief be damned," a handful of crooks parachute in and easily seize the prison from its army of guards, who apparently came to Alcatraz after being fired for incompetence from Toys R Us night watchmen jobs.Led by a disgruntled prison bureaucrat (Morris Chestnut) and a martial-arts bimbo (Nia Peeples), the bad guys stop the execution of a gold thief (Bruce Weitz) and make hostages of his death-row witnesses, including the Supreme Court justice (Linda Thorson) who presided in the case. The thugs are after the location of $200 million in gold bricks, whose whereabouts the thief has sworn to take to the grave.From then on, it's nothing but Seagal kicking the tar out of people with help from fellow inmates (Kurupt among them). The action is choppy, probably from editing to sanitize the violence and avoid an R rating, though some of it results from inept staging (in one close-up, Seagal looks as if he's playing pattycake rather than fighting hand-to-hand).Worse than the stunts is the laughable dialogue, overloaded with macho taunts and cumbersome, phony crime-world jargon. The movie hits a comical lowpoint as ringleader Chestnut psychoanalyzes the high court justice's choice to put career ahead of marriage and family ("You forgot about love, didn't you? Your biological clock ticking, and your field went fallow."). Half past rotten stuff, this.Not even as a straight-to-video slasher flick. If it's a Friday night and this is the last video on the shelf at your local store, please--I'm begging you--find something else to do. Macrame, perhaps, or ballroom dance lessons.This eighth installment in the horror series, which conspicuously wasn't screened ahead of time for critics, is devoid of wit, style or creativity. Screenwriters Larry Brand and Sean Hood churn out the cliches with such lifeless predictability you can practically hear the cogs grinding. Director Rick Rosenthal also directed 1981's "Halloween II," and has nothing new to offer.Jamie Lee Curtis, who starred as Laurie in the 1978 original, is back for her fourth "Halloween" -- but not for long. Something happens early that suggests this could be her last one, but as you're well aware, no one ever really dies in these movies.The premise this time, as if it matters: Gonzo TV producer Freddie Harris (rapper Busta Rhymes) picks six college students to spend Halloween night in Michael Myers' childhood home. He straps tiny cameras to their heads and broadcasts what they see live on the Internet--sort of a cross between "The Real World" and "Voyeur Dorm," but without the colorful Ikea furniture.Once inside the rickety old house, it doesn't take long for Michael to take them out one by one. Naturally, because they're all so stupid, they go off individually in the dark, which makes it easy on him.A cyber-buddy of Sara's is watching the Webcast from a Halloween party and is resourceful enough to send her instant messages on her Palm Pilot to warn her when Michael is nearby. This is a clever little idea, but theoretically, Freddie would have taken all communications devices away from the players to keep them from exactly that kind of interaction.When the bloodletting is over, "Halloween: Resurrection" has the audacity to skewer reality TV for being exploitative, which has been done repeatedly in recent years--and only slightly better -- in movies including "Series 7," "15 Minutes" and "Showtime." Please, as if slasher flicks weren't just as shameless.University film student. True enough, Michael Almereyda's update of "Hamlet" flirts with the ludicrous in every reel. But it's ultimately a compelling and streamlined vision that lives surprisingly well in the city's hard-edged, chilly streets and penthouses.Like Laurence Olivier's 1948 version, the movie turns Hamlet's monologues (the ones that survive the textual pruning) into voiceovers, the murmur of the man's mind. That's one of the few weaknesses here; the decision turns the speeches into something like a soundtrack to the action.The vengeful anger of Laertes (Liev Schreiber) comes as a bracing burst of energy, opposed to Hawke's slacker pout. (Of course, the play intentionally sets up this opposition between a son who rushes to avenge his father's death, and another who procrastinates.) Schreiber is good, though he seems to be affecting a semi-British accent that none of the others use.Polonius. Julia Stiles as the fragile Ophelia continues to be one of the more fascinating actresses in her age group, tapping considerable emotional resources for her difficult mad scene. And MacLachlan draws on his smiley-seedy "Showgirls" persona to make Claudius a believably slick cad.But the strongest performance comes from Venora, a Shakespearean veteran who herself played the prince onstage. She and Almereyda come up with a nice, sharp interpretation of her motivations to drink her cup of poison that deepens the character and her bond with her son.Review: Given the impression fostered by the ads, "Hanging Up" looks as if it comes from the same girl-movie ghetto as "The First Wives Club" and "Soul Food." It seems to be a sidesplitting comedy about three sisters (Diane Keaton, Meg Ryan and Lisa Kudrow) trying to get along by reaching out and touching one another over the phone.The real focus here is on the increasingly dependent, certainly dying father  a once-successful screenwriter long ago divorced by his wife  and his love-hate relationship with his middle daughter, Eve (Ryan).All three of his daughters are major achievers, 21st-century style. But, tellingly, only Eve has managed to combine a career (event planner) with a family. Georgia (Keaton), the eldest, is some unholy cross between Gloria Steinem, Diane Sawyer and Barbara Walters. She's too busy planning the fifth anniversary of her magazine  the aptly named Georgia  to bother with doctors and hospitals.That leaves Eve, who, we soon see, was always Daddy's favorite but never could come to terms with his selfishness and aggression. The dual demands of his dementia and his inevitable death are, for her, overwhelming.Somewhere beneath the insistently breezy script of the Ephron sisters (Nora and Delia, who based the story on Delia's novelistic memoir of their father's death) and Keaton's brisk direction, there's a far more painful and genuine story. You can see it in Ryan's raw emotional breakdowns, in the naked fear in Matthau's eyes, in Keaton's deft sendup of what happens when the culture's long-designated caregivers  the daughters  opt for a career over bedpans and hand-holding.In other words, this is a serious, worthy theme, in many ways as old as "King Lear." It's the sort of picture that can  and does  handle some humor but, at heart, dares to ask some difficult questions.All the ingredients in this long-anticipated sequel are fresh and procured at considerable expense. The preparation is skillful, the presentation loving, even lavish. The ambience is, um, to die for. But these things only go so far to enrich a dish that's occasionally bitter, bloody and not as complexly flavored as the previous course. While moviegoers are likely to wolf it down, they may feel queasy later.That's no fault of the filmmakers. Ridley Scott ("Gladiator") takes over from "Silence of the Lambs" director Jonathan Demme, while Julianne Moore fills Jodie Foster's sensible flats as FBI special agent Clarice Starling. It's hard to imagine two better replacements. And, of course, Anthony Hopkins returns in silken, menacing form in the role that earned him an Oscar.Ten years after she tracked down serial killer Jame Gumb, with the help of Hannibal Lecter's quid pro quo clues, Starling has hit some hard days. Resented for her success and what the men around her call "a smart mouth," she's already body-bruised from bumping the FBI's glass ceiling.Things get worse when a combined FBI, DEA and D.C. police raid on the kitchen of a drug dealer goes badly wrong. In the media frenzy afterward, Starling is offered up as a sacrificial, but far from silent, lamb by the agency's backroom politicians. Then a call comes from an unlikely savior: Mason Verger (Gary Oldman, unrecognizable under an Elephant Man mask of facial scars), a very wealthy sicko, seeks Starling's help in tracking down the man responsible for Cuisinarting his face and leaving him paralyzed.David Mamet and Steven Zaillian's screenplay changes that. Their finale is more palatable, though it includes an over-the-top act of violence that seems out of character for Lecter, and leaves you questioning a couple of loose ends. Before we get there, though, they also contrive a tight, gripping action sequence not in the book, set in a busy train station.While it takes care of the plot's main trouble spot, and eliminates supporting characters like Clarice's roommate and Mason's bodybuilding, sperm-seeking lesbian sister (whew), the movie can't alter the book's lurid, lip-smacking tone."Hannibal" is an explicit horror show, revelling in Grand Guignol tactics, like the spectacle of steaming intestines splashing the ground, and even worse things, involving Verger's army of man-eating pigs or Lecter's insistence on dining on only the freshest meats.By contrast, "The Silence of the Lambs" worked on a more subterranean level, disturbing us largely with what it didn't show us. (The differences in the films are reflected in the novels, so Scott is really just being faithful.) As powerful as its fear-of-the-dark details, "Lambs' " slippery-slope moral stance accounted for much of its effect. By that movie's wickedly funny fade-out, we unexpectedly found ourselves sympathizing with the devil--or, at least, a civilized cannibal with a taste for human liver and a nice Chianti."Hannibal" doesn't undermine our values in that way, because it presents a world where normal values have already been inverted. The person who works the hardest for the highest ideals, like Starling, is the likeliest to get beaten down. Here, the Judas figure can be a police officer trying to apprehend a felon, while our substitute Christ (seen in a bizarre crucifixion tableau) is a serial killer. "Hannibal's" landscape is a fallen Eden swarming with snakes; the hard expression of defeat on the once hopeful Starling's face is almost as frightening as Verger's slice-and-dice kisser.While Demme kept his film poised on an edge between everyday detail and a focused, heightened realism, Scott pushes his movie into more stylized territory, using colored filters, slo-mo, smoke and shadows and herky-jerky flashbacks. He seems to know there's no point in trying to tell this story in a less operatic way; he's the professional barker at what he knows is a freak show.Hopkins slips into the role like a lotioned hand in a velvet glove. Though hampered by a smaller, simpler part, and much less screen time than Foster had with Hopkins, Moore still manages to make a strong impression as Starling. The supporting cast includes Ray Liotta, in fine, smarmy lather as Starling's nemesis from the Justice Department.This sunny crowd pleaser captivated audiences at this year's Sundance Film Festival with its cheerful zaniness and flyweight gender-bender humor. Think "La Cage aux Folles" mixed with "Some Like It Hot" and a dash of the beauty pageant spoof "Smile."So as not to mislead anyone, "Happy, Texas" isn't nearly as accomplished as any of those movies, but it heads in the same genial direction. Harry Sawyer (Jeremy Northam) and Wayne Wayne Wayne Jr. (Steve Zahn) are petty crooks who, through a lucky break, become escaped convicts. On the lam, they steal an RV and find themselves mistaken for the owners: a gay couple who stage beauty pageants for little girls and have been hired to put on the Little Miss Fresh Squeezed Contest in nearby Happy, Texas.Happy's residents are unhappy that their little girls have been routinely weeded out of the finals. So Harry and Wayne are welcomed as a source of professional expertise, even if they are ... well, you know. ...H. Macy) and rob the bank. But Harry finds himself drawn to the bank's owner (Ally Walker), while Wayne discovers a long-dormant talent for staging cheesy dance numbers for little girls in sunflower costumes. That wins him the admiration of the girls' teacher (Illeana Douglas). Meanwhile, Harry attracts his own altogether unexpected admirer.The last-minute plot device weakens the picture, as if filmmaker Mark Illsley couldn't come up with a good ending and so, quite literally, he cuts to the chase. But by then the movie has built up so much good will that you can't help but go along.Kudos to the cast for maintaining just the right touch of amiable silliness. Northam, who could probably act in Jane Austen adaptations for the rest of his life, proves he can do much more. He might end up claiming some of Hugh Grant's territory. As for Zahn, he continues to carve out his peculiar yet irresistible niche as the Michael J. Pollard of the 1990s. He has that stoned, one-beat-off thing combined with a kind of nervous belligerence that's hilarious in its total impotence. Best of all is the aforementioned Macy, who has a few secrets of his own."Happy, Texas" strikes a sweet-natured tone that may not be realistic but cozies up to you like some friendly puppy. Plus, it's just plain funny. When the pair finally figure out who they're supposed to be, Harry shrugs, "So we're gay. How hard can that be?"Based on Daniel Coyle's book about his time spent coaching a kids' baseball team in Chicago's Cabrini Green (the old stomping grounds of Candyman), the movie is more focused on the team's coach than on the individual players.McGlone), an investment banker, to front him some badly needed cash. Jimmy's response is a lecture on how deeply he's involved with a program that encourages corporations to find ways to do good in the community. Of course, Jimmy's idea of doing good is to pay someone else to do it for him. He'll give Conor $500 a week if he takes his place coaching a baseball team in the projects.Two likeable underdogs set out on a Friday night quest to satisfy their craving for White Castle hamburgers and end up on an epic journey of deep thoughts, deeper inhaling and a wild road trip as un-PC as it gets."Harold & Kumar Go to White Castle" is a funny stoner buddy movie, with nods to those original multicultural high times guys, Cheech and Chong, and flashes of the kind of party-on comedy that "Saturday Night Live" slackers Wayne and Garth made most excellent.Harold is a socially awkward accountant hopelessly infatuated with a Latin lovely named Maria (Paula Garces). His roommate Kumar is a merry prankster doing his best to stay out of med school despite his doctor father's directives. The laughs start when the two get a major attack of the munchies one Friday after toking up and being mesmerized by a White Castle hamburger commercial. They drive out to satisfy their cravings for a suitcase full of sliders and end up on an all-night odyssey through suburban New Jersey.Much like the downward spiral of convoluted perils faced by the main character of Martin Scorsese's darker (and much better) "After Hours," things get stranger and stranger for Harold and Kumar as they journey beyond midnight. A college dope dealer, a rabid raccoon, a runaway cheetah and a crazy cop all figure in the chronic bummer, moved along with some surreal animation, wacky puppetry and bizarre makeup.One of the best bits features Christopher Meloni as Freakshow, a hideous tow-truck driver with a face full of exploding boils and a sexy young wife. And Neil Patrick Harris deftly plays himself, acting the horn dog fool and hijacking Harold's ride in order to pick up chicks -- which leads to the inevitable dude line, "Did Doogie Howser just steal my car?"As giddily politically incorrect as "Harold & Kumar" wants to be, it's also a movie (like "Dodgeball") that roots for the underdogs and ultimately shows its sweet side. In case you didn't see "The Whole Nine Yards" on cable or a cross-country flight, Bruce Willis is back as psychotically sensitive hit man Jimmy the Tulip. But he's gone bonkers in a totally different way and is hiding out, playing domestic divo on the beach in Baja. Its up-and-coming stars, Indian-American Penn and Korean-American Cho, break out of the stereotypical minor character roles they're usually relegated to and carry out all the goofiness with subversive intelligence and comedic chemistry. And in the end, the lesson they learn, that "the universe tends to unfold as it should," is really pretty heavy, man.Review: "Harrison's Flowers" is the story of a fictional photographer who disappears while covering the Serbian-Croatian war. Though the photojournalist is presumed dead, his wife catches the first flight out to find him.Review: Year two at Hogwarts certainly makes for better viewing than freshman year. Yet like any school calendar overstuffed with, well, school stuff, "Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets" starts dragging its tail around midterms.After an hour and a half of generally brisk action, greatly improved special effects and a decent dose of dry British humor, it feels like time for director Chris Columbus to kick it into the homestretch with a taut finale.Instead, you're barely halfway through, and the next hour-plus of magic and mayhem might wear down all but the most indomitable "Harry Potter" fans. What happens in these stories just is not interesting enough to merit running times edging toward three hours.The keepers of the boy-wizard franchise decided long ago to be as inclusive as possible in the movies, seemingly a reasonable move to satisfy legions of young readers who want as verbatim a translation as possible from page to screen.But a year ago, those kids groused anyway about omissions in "Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone. They'll grouse the same about "Chamber of Secrets," though it runs 2 hours, 41 minutes -- nine minutes longer than the first film.Still, "Chamber of Secrets" is fairly fun despite its length. The movie nicely blends livelier humor and a darker tinge than "Sorcerer's Stone," and the performances of Harry (Daniel Radcliffe) and pals Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger (Rupert Grint and Emma Watson) are much more self-assured and authentic.While Columbus' "Sorcerer's Stone" essentially was a cinematic transcription of the book, he manages a bit more idiosyncrasy with "Chamber of Secrets" while sticking to the letter of J.K. Rowling's narrative.Good casting for new characters, expanded roles for some returning ones, dazzling sets and effects, creepy creatures and amusing dialogue and sight gags all help light a spark lacking in the first film, for all its box-office success.Harry's second year at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry is a slow buildup to his rematch with the evil conjurer Voldemort, the bad guy who killed his parents and left that zigzag scar on his forehead, and whose butt Harry kicked in the first film.The movie touches on knotty themes of racism in the wizard world as conservative elements spout desires to carry out a sort of sorcerer's ethnic cleansing and rid their realm of "mudbloods" -- those born of nonmagical Muggle parents.All key happenings have been incorporated from the book: Appearances by house elf Dobby (a cuddly addition for young children); the ride to school in a flying car that's all but demolished by a Whomping Willow; the targeting of Harry by an enchanted game ball during the Quidditch match on flying broomsticks, an event vastly enhanced over last year's game thanks to George Lucas' ILM effects house; the "petrification" of students and messages of doom written in blood on the walls; the time-traveling diary that falls into Harry's hands; the nest of giant spiders and Harry's battle with a massive serpent.Richard Harris' recent death makes his stately performance as Hogwarts master Dumbledore all the more poignant. Maggie Smith as crisp but kindly Professor McGonagall, Robbie Coltrane as noble behemoth Hagrid and Alan Rickman as sullen Professor Snape remain standouts among the adult cast.Branagh provides great comic highlights as the preening dandy Gilderoy Lockhart, Hogwarts' new defense-against-the-dark-arts teacher. Limited to a few seconds on screen in the first film, Julie Walters is delightfully shrill this time as Mrs. Weasley (though John Cleese as the ghost Nearly Headless Nick remains a nonentity).Jason Isaacs, the loathsome British butcher of "The Patriot," menacingly adds to his resume of villains as Lucius Malfoy, a bigoted wizard and father of Harry's school rival Draco (played with increasing odiousness by Tom Felton).Columbus plans to remain on as a producer for the franchise's third flick, "Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban," due out in summer 2004. New director Alfonso Cuaron, who made 1995's "A Little Princess" and this year's racy Spanish-language hit "Y Tu Mama Tambien," will be kept on a short leash in terms of closely mirroring the novel, but he brings a fresh eye and playful style that bode well for Chapter 3.In his fourth year at Hogwarts, Harry is selected as a contestant in the Triwizard Tournament, where he must compete against the wizards from schools all over Europe. But as he prepares, signs begin to point to the return of Lord Voldemort. Before long, Harry is playing not just for the Cup, but for his life."(The film's) most compelling magic isn't in its muddled plot, its mermaids and grindylows, or its flying carriages or sinking ships, but in its detailed and moving portraits of Harry and his friends growing up.""Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban" is the movie we'd hoped the first two would be. From the moment the familiar Warner Brothers logo appears, all silvery and black and slightly spooky, we know we're in for an entirely different brand of movie magic.To guard the school, the prison has dispatched Dementors -- skeletal wraiths that suggest the illegitimate children of a Nazgul and a banshee. But these ominous shrouded figures may be even more dangerous than Black. They can literally suck your soul out and they aren't especially choosy about their victims.David Thewlis ("Naked") portrays the new Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher, Professor Lupin, who becomes Harry's mentor but has a dark secret of his own. Emma Thompson makes a brief but hilarious appearance as the dotty Divination teacher, Sibyll Trelawney, whose beaded and pillowed classroom looks like a college dorm room circa 1969."Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban" sets a wondrous new standard for the series. It proves that Rowling's books can be molded to a director's vision without losing their heart, soul and spirit. Or, most crucially, their magic.As almost everyone knows, Harry (Daniel Radcliffe) is the boy-wizard hero of J.K. Rowling's brilliant and phenomenally successful series of fantasy books. Harry loses his parents as an infant, is raised by his Muggle (non-magical folk) relatives and has no idea of his heritage until he turns 11. Then he's packed off to Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, where he makes new friends, learns new things and discovers that he's famous for having survived an attack on his life. But he may not be out of danger yet.The movie reminds us how very good Rowling's story is. We relish anew her fascinating roster of characters, her facility with fantasy worlds. It may turn out that those who haven't read the books will enjoy the movie more than its legions of fans. After all, they don't know what happens next.For those who know Every Single Thing that happens next (right down to the flavor of the Every Flavor Bean that Dumbledore swallows), there are changes and shortcuts, but nothing too dastardly. To include everything  would make an already long picture (2+ hours) even longer.But a well-meaning Muggle. And sometimes he gives us scenes that are better than in the book. Take John Hurt as the proprietor of a wand shop in Diagon Alley, where Hogwarts students do their back-to-school shopping. It's a charming sequence as written, but Hurt takes the movie to another level. He knows the sound of fantasy, and he gives us a terrific sendoff to Hogwarts itself, where the staircases move on a whim and the Sorting Hat assigns first-year students to one of four houses and the sport of choice is Quidditch (sort of pony-club polo on flying broomsticks).We expect perfection from the A-list cast of British actors that Columbus has assembled--John Cleese, Maggie Smith and Julie Walters--in addition to those already mentioned. And we get it. But there were qualms about the novice child actors. Not to worry. Watson and Grint are scene-stealers. In fact, they sometimes overshadow Harry himself. Radcliffe is a dead ringer for the book-cover Harry, but he's dreamier, quieter onscreen. He's good enough, but his character lacks the myriad feelings we got from Rowling's version--baffled, astonished, devilish, brave and sometimes just plain wowed by all that's going on around him.Alley shop. In the case of "Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone," the wizard chose the wand, so to speak. Columbus wanted to make this movie more than Rowling wanted him to make it. He gets the job done--sometimes magnificently--but you have to wonder what amazements a different wizard might have wrought."Tigerland." A Senator's son who's never  seen the inside of a foxhole, Hart finds himself plunged into the war after volunteering for a seemingly harmless  chauffeuring job. He's sent first to a brutal Gestapo torture chamber, then on a grueling forced march to Stalag VI, McNamara's camp.Hart is assigned to bunk with enlisted men instead of officers (McNamara says  there's no room in his hut, though we clearly see empty beds), and is befriended by Sgt. Bedford (Cole Hauser),  who seems like a pretty decent guy until  two shot-down Tuskegee airmen are also assigned to  the barrack. Then he spews the sort of vicious racial epithet that begins with the letter "n."The plot proper kicks in when one of the prisoners is murdered and Scott is accused of the crime. McNamara talks the camp's spookily urbane commandant, Col Visser (Marcel Iures)   who  likes jazz, cognac and Mark Twain  into letting them hold a court martial. Then he appoints Hart as Scott's defense lawyer.The misleading trailers  make you think this is an action flick; in fact, it's more of a confined courtroom drama. The writers may have thrown in a few too many plot strands. But director Gregory Hoblit not only relishes movies with a twist  he did "Frequency" and "Primal Fear"  but he knows how to handle them, too.Intelligence and restraint are the main reasons to see "Hart's War." The problem is Willis. Not because he's bad; he isn't, though he tends toward some one-note scowling. It's because the script doesn't give McNamara enough juicy scenes. We 're supposed to feel conflicted about McNamara and we do. Is he a closet racist? Does he put himself or his men first? Stuff like that.The mansion's ghostly owner, Edward Gracey (Nathaniel Parker), is a brooding fellow with a family secret. In the sole somewhat subversive element in the movie, it seems that Sara and Gracey were interracial lovers in a previous life. But the mysterious circumstances of their parting are known only to Gracey's butler, Ramsley (Terence Stamp) and Madame Leota (Jennifer Tilly), a wisecracking fortuneteller trapped inside a crystal ball.Maybe Chris Rock should take a long, hard look at Richard Pryor's movie career. Demonically funny and laceratingly observant in his stand-up act and his concert films, Pryor started out doing interesting movies like "Lady Sings the Blues" and "The Bingo Long All-Stars & Traveling Motor Kings." But when he and Gene Wilder hit box office gold in "Silver Streak," they were re-teamed in increasingly witless white-bread movies. Stuff like "Stir Crazy," in which they both dressed up in chicken suits.Rock plays Mays Gilliam, a nice-guy alderman for a run-down Washington, D.C., neighborhood. When both his party's candidates (read, Democratic) are killed in a plane crash, a political insider (James Rebhorn) with his eye on the 2008 election picks Mays as the new presidential hopeful. Choosing Mays makes it look as if his party gave a rat's butt about minorities, but more importantly, it gives him a clear path to the nomination next time.Along with some prepared "off-the-cuff" remarks and a good suit, Mays is handed a campaign staff: a manager (Dylan Baker), who doesn't know what to make of Mays; an adviser (Lynn Whitfield), who hates to see Mays thrown to the Washington wolves; a security guard, whose main job is to keep Mays' ambitious ex-girlfriend (Robin Givens) at bay; and a lovely blonde whose job description is vague but who's available 24/7 to head off any sex scandals during the campaign. Mays also hooks up with beautiful Tamala Jones (wasted in a one-note romantic-interest role).It's the ol' fish-out-of-water scenario, but thanks to Rock's writing, the picture still offers some hilarious moments. When Mays is offered the job, the first thing to flash through his head is being assassinated; that's what being president means to him. Later on, Mays quits being a party puppet and starts speaking for himself (surprise!). His numbers go up in the polls, and his opponent (Nick Searcy), a guy whose slogan is "God bless America and no one else," whips up a new series of ads including one that goes, "Vote Lewis. He's your last chance." Plus, the movie features Bernie Mac, who, as Mays' brother/running mate, is a sight gag all by himself in his technicolor suits and fancy hats.Early on, the film has some of the sweet and savvy foolishness of an early Steve Martin comedy, but overall it's sadly unsubtle and formulaic. Rock is too smart to make this kind of so-so dumb movie. Yes, it's only a silly comedy, but with Rock, you can't help but expect the silliness to be laced with arsenic.Three women vacation on the sun-drenched island of Haiti in the 1970s looking for flirtation, relaxation and respite from their colorless jobs and marriages. Their passion for a local adonis will lead them away from the guilded cage of tourism and  open their eyes to the poverty stricken and dangerous world of Haiti at the end of "Baby Doc" Duvalier's notoriously violent regime.They play Max and Page Conners, a mother-daughter con-artist team. Their best scam involves a wedding/seduction combo in which some rich idiot gets taken for all he's worth. It's pretty simple when you look as good in tight skirts and push-up bras as these two do.It's the summer of 1960. Eleven-year-old Bobby (Anton Yelchin) has a dead dad and a bitter widowed mom (Hope Davis) whose idea of a great birthday present is an adult library card. Sure, it's educational, but Bobby rightly suspects that it's also free, leaving her more money to spend on her wardrobe.One final flaw. It's easy enough to care about Joe. Hackman invests him with old pro know-how and a craggy charm. But it's not so easy to care about Fran. Or Joe and Fran as a couple, which is crucial to the story.When will superheroes finally get cool, colorful names -- rockin' handles like Smashing Death, Cosmic Defender of Do-gooding, or Mike? We keep sticking them with the first dull description that pops to mind: Superman, Wonder Woman. The canon of prosaic superhero names makes an anomaly like Hulk sound madly exotic.Now moviegoers can contend with Hellboy -- yeah, a boy from hell. But let it roll around your head for a bit, and its tongue-in-cheek ring will slowly become audible. Hellboy. It's so dorky, it's funny.Readers of Mike Mignola's decade-old Dark Horse comic of the same name already know this. The concept is to take a familiar monster figure -- in this case a spawn of Satan, with iconic horns, tail and all -- and make him an agent of good, combating fellow hideous monsters for the preservation of humankind.Guillermo del Toro's above-average if not-quite-spectacular adaptation of "Hellboy" sticks to this expectation-flipping recipe and retains the comic's cheeky, po-mo spirit. Even the monster's bookish mentor Trevor Bruttenholm (the fabulous John Hurt, looking like a German composer, or a fusty Dickens codger) admits that Hellboy is "perhaps not the most fortunate name." His friends call him Red.And red he is. Played by Ron Perlman, a fine character actor with the build of a cinder block, Hellboy bears the subtle flesh tones of a fire engine. His Mount Rushmore jaw enters rooms before he does. His devilish tail curls, but he has carefully sanded off his horns in a vain attempt to fit in with the human world. His right hand is an outsize chunk of stone that doubles frequently as a sledgehammer. His furry muttonchops connect to a snug samurai ponytail. And, along with some fancy sci-fi weaponry, he carries Catholic rosary beads, presumably to fend off bad folks from his brimstone hometown.That's a confusing collage of mythic elements, a nerdy heap of hodge-podge the movie can't satisfactorily explain or do anything with. As the film's pummeling action crashes along, del Toro only throws in more quasi-religious, supernatural, historical, mystic, warrior, horror and sci-fi gunk, clogging up what should be a whip-fast joy ride of humor and hellaciousness.It's weird and funny, and del Toro and Perlman sustain this swirling tone of dislocation throughout the picture, which could profit from a good 20-minute trim. Their playful levity almost absorbs the dreary mechanics of this sort of promiscuous genre pastiche, but the movie never finds its tonal footing, slipping and sliding on too much stuff, from martial-arts ballets and subway chases, to raging demons and boogery pools of ectoplasm.Predominantly a maker of art horror movies, del Toro has a well-rounded sense of story. In all his films, particularly his personal works "Cronos" and "The Devil's Backbone," he develops an emotional strain that ties the characters and their pasts together with meaning. (He also loves windup Victorian-age gadgetry, scholarly mysteries of the occult and deadly, slurpy creatures.) "Hellboy" flirts with emotional elements (even romance) that never fully connect because del Toro hasn't slowed down enough to develop a cohesive humanism.In its place, he plunges into the murky cosmologies of the paranormal for a climax that keeps any trace of sense or logic to itself. It appears that Rasputin wants to open the portal to hell and ruin everyone's day, but I could be horribly wrong.A dazzling diversion with dark undertones, the movie is he said/she said taken to the extreme. We watch certain events from one point of view, then from another. Conflicting stories are to be expected, but not as contradictory as the ones writer-director Laetitia Colombani unfolds.The movie begins with a sprightly young art student named Angelique (Tautou) dropping into a flower shop to buy a single rose for her beloved, a handsome but older cardiologist named Loic (Samuel Le Bihan). Flashing a smile that could persuade  Saddam Hussein to give himself up, she gets the shop's owner to have the flower delivered, even though one-stem deliveries aren't his usual practice. Next we see Loic sniffing the rose, obviously touched by the gesture.Slowly we learn that all is not as it seems in this relationship. Loic is married, with a pregnant wife. Angelique doesn't care. She blissfully insists to her friends that he plans to leave her so they can be together. And from what little bits we see of their relationship, it could be true.We also get hints that Angelique's unwavering adoration can border on the obsessive. For instance, when she sees Loic walking with his wife, she angrily spray-paints a message on his car's windshield. But it's nothing to get too worried about; she is, after all, very young and very much in love and very used to getting her way, as we saw in the flower shop.Review: The Earth of "Here on Earth" is stuck in a 45-year time warp. The movie's small Massachusetts town seems to have no fast-food chains, no cell phones, no computers. The townsfolk drink vanilla shakes (instead of smoothies)